{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7619/homepage_large.17586aa7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Candi Staton","title":"His Hands","text":" This isn't quite the tribute to my favorite unheralded Southern soul demigoddess that I was expecting. In the late 1960s and 70s, Candi Staton's voice boomed with the stylish conviction of Aretha Franklin and the hoarse pathos of Otis Redding. She left her mark on bitterly sad Muscle Shoals sides like \"You Don't Love Me No More\" and \"I'm Just a Prisoner (of Your Good Lovin')\", most of which were reissued by Capitol in 2004 as a selftitled compilation. Staton's extensive catalogue includes disco, Grammynominated gospel records, and, in the early 1990s, a clubready UK top 10 single, \"You Got the Love\" (only the final song in the Sex and the City finale, like duh!). On His Hands, the 66yearold diva finally returns to her soul roots. Staton's miseries, at least, seem undiminished by time. Her best old songs convey nearBiblical tribulations, often depicting a pathologically penitent woman who begs for the love of her man, confessing her own sins while holding him blameless. In real life, Staton's trail of doomed relationships rivals Tina Turner's. Yet in giving husky voice to her powerlessness, she became powerful. On His Hands, the heartbreak continues in a new set of old sad bastard music, notably Merle Haggard's \"You Don't Have Far to Go\" and Charlie Rich's \"You Never Really Wanted Me\". Staton's bombshell voice remains singularly affecting, if a little more rehearsed, ranging from raspy overblown notes to frayed whispers. The voice is willing, but the musical backdrop is weak. Producer Mark Nevers, of altcountry collective Lambchop, and Staton's band, which features a few of her family members, surely had the best intentions. But the horns, female choirs, and clichéd licks of His Hands sound a little too slick think Blues Brothers 2000 where Staton's first couple of albums clawed through veins with tragically selfabasing passion. The inclusion of four Staton originals doesn't help matters, though they're not much more pedestrian than the Will Oldhampenned title track. \"His Hands\" is a leisurely waltz that ballasts its arty ambitions with clumsily incongruous lyrics: \"There were a lot of things in his touch/ Sometimes the slightest whisper, oh, it could hurt so much/ I could feel him coming nearer, his little noises and such\". The strain behind that final rhyme is almost audible.  No matter how huge Staton's voice, His Hands is merely a nostalgic echo that falls short of the original. Her recent selftitled retrospective is still the best starting point for those who'd like to be entranced, mystified, and deeply touched by Staton's emotive brand of Alabama soul. It gathers all of the tracks from her 1969 debut, I'm Just a Prisoner, and the 1971 followup Stand By Your Man including her Grammynominated version of the Tammy Wynette standard, plus her take on the Elvis hit \"In the Ghetto\". Though Staton's most wrenching songs confront what men's hands have wrought, her strength has always come from deep within. Such fortitude deserves better than this.  "}