{"label":" Matinee","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7620/homepage_large.87a682d3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Neil Robertson","artist":"The Smiths","title":"Romantic and Square Is Hip and Aware: A Matinee Tribute to The Smiths","text":" This review's doomed before you've even begun to read it. How can a fey indiekid condemn this collection of cloying tweepop covers and not seem like some sanctimonious snob, shrieking cries of \"sacrilege!\" at these minorleague indie bands' attempts at hero worship? Surely these bands are our brethren wistful, floppyfringed romantics who fumble through life reciting poetry, being troddenon and getting caught on unattainable women. Like us, they see the songs of Steven Morrissey as painfully acute in describing their own dysfunction. Why attack them for paying tribute? Maybe because it all seems so heartless. While Romantic and Square Is Hip and Aware is not the first attempt at a tribute to The Smiths (the bored Britpop Bleague of The Smiths Is Dead, with its fudged covers from Placebo and Supergrass, bears that backwards honor), but it's certainly the most galling, as its cast of clueless collegerock enthusiasts clumsily recreate Marr/Morrissey's rainsplattered, angstlaced elegies. Frustratingly, the collection begins with promise. Employing backwards guitars and fragile, folkish whispers, femalefronted The Pines provide a soft, autumnal take on \"Ask\". Later, The Lucksmiths the only band on this collection whose own material is at all noteworthy knock out \"There Is a Light That Never Goes Out\" as the kind of boy/girl duet that Morrissey might have attempted had he ever met many girls. But finding impressive moments on this record is like looking for moments of untainted joy on Meat Is Murder. Take Slipside's straightlaced rendition of \"Please Please Please Let Me Get What I Want\". From the sound of it, they've simply snatched the chords from some bookstore songbook and furnished it with a pitchperfect Morrissey impersonation. You could hear this shit for free in any student bar in the northern hemisphere. Also noteworthy for its cringeinducing ridiculousness is the WouldBeGoods' garbling of \"Back to the Old House\", whose weightless wreck of anemic harmonies and cuddlecorecuteness could inspire Isobel Campbell pick up an electric guitar. Lovejoy's \"Girlfriend in a Coma\" even manages to inject some Johnny Marrmimicking guitar lines into its pallid, toiling shoegaze, while Pale Sunday's \"I Know It's Over\" is absurd, vocoderruined Europop, completely devoid of emotion with impoverished production and cheap keyboard whirls. In an age where mere overexposure is enough to make people revise their opinions of bands, Romantic and Square does The Smiths no favors. It's a record that succeeds in rendering such classic songs as limp, lifeless and utterly unremarkable, stripping them of the passion, context and camp wit that made them great to begin with. "}