{"label":" Shinkoyo","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7623/homepage_large.06116c1d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Skeletons","title":"Life and the Afterbirth","text":" It's a mysterious package, this album: Just a black envelope with a red profile of a revolver glued to the front, slid into a clear plastic outer casing that contains a card listing only the artist and album title in a simple courier font. And that's it. Search though you might, you'll never find a tracklist or any kind of information about the people involved in crafting this record. The music inside this purposefully enigmatic enclosure isn't quite as obtuse as its packaging might suggest. Though it's rife with unorthodox textures and songs that detour down paths they don't predict, it's basically accessible and poprooted, and the lack of a proper tracklist is odd given the distinctness of the individual songs. A bit of research reveals that the packaging convention is actually just the standard for Shinkoyo Records, and that Skeletons are really just one Skeleton: a guy by the name of Matt Mehlan who brings in supporting musicians as necessary, but operates for the most part on his own. Mehlan is obviously interested in the construction of a distinct sound, and he's well on his way to having one, a burbling conglomeration of ambient electronic debris, programmed and live drums, his own multitracked harmonies and a wall of keyboards and guitars. His dark roomsound production gives the record a feel akin to Home Is Where It Hurtsera Hood with less emphasis on the lowend, blending the timbres into each other like watercolors. Mehlan is a sharp melodist, and when he brings his full arsenal to bear on a simple melody, the effect is magnificent. Track 3 sways in on a clipped beat over a bed of ringing keys and piano, and thin lines of hovering guitar. Mehlan's massed harmonies are weirdly smeared here, the background voices rising in the wake of the foreground vocals for a strange seasick effect. (Incidentally, this is the only track given a title on the band's website: \"My Friend Drowned in His Own Vomit\".) His harmonized falsetto refrain of, \"If you gave me the chance I'd like to/ Fuck away your memory/ Fuck away mistakes I've made\" on track 4 is the kind of thing you could have stuck in your head for days, nudged into your memory by chiming keys and brisk programming. The album's unquestionable highlight, though, is track 7. A slow, dark crawl led by violin and viola, the song slinks in on inky cymbals, building to a disorienting verse that ends with Mehlan proclaiming, \"I looked up and saw an angel,\" whereupon the song slips into a bizarre interlude, Mehlan battling to rise above a morass of electronic gurgles. The strings finally force their way back into the picture and the song rides out on fuzzaddled guitar and bass, closing with a meditative guitar ostinato. For its breathtaking peaks, though, Life and the Afterbirth has a few unfortunate holes, most notably tracks 6 and 8, the former being a low, ambient hum and the latter a far too deep forest of fluttering static and bell tones. Still, for his first label release (he has one selfreleased album, 2002's Everybody Dance with Your Steering Wheel), Mehlan has crafted a unique and largely successful album of artstained pop. "}