{"label":" My Pal God","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7635/homepage_large.547b9eec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"S PRCSS","title":"Taste Like Daughter","text":" On their 2001 debut More Me, and last year's Frenchkissreleased followup MNML, S PRCSS operated as trio of musical penpals: The guitarist sent a track to the bassist, who in turn added his own line before shipping it off to the vocalist. They would trade these tapes back and forth via post, until deciding as a group that their collection of overdubbed tracks had become a song, and finally an album, and would then present the material as a complete fulllength. If this is no longer the case, and S PRCSS have become a fullfledged, intheflesh studio band, their latest outing, Taste Like Daughter, still both benefits and suffers from a certain internal distance. In fact, if anything, the doubleedged nature of the band's schtick is more pronounced than ever: S PRCSS seem to embrace this distance and capitalize on it, whereas previous recordings offered the sense that at times the band was attempting to mask its compositional wiring. Here, the writing recalls less rock riffs than rockish dance loops, the mere risk of which makes S PRCSS worth talking about in the first place. Every song immediately showcases the fantastic depth and openness of the production. Take \"Look: Explosion! New Spring\", which opens with a set of autonomous guitar and basslines which form airy chords as if accidentally. Yet, while momentous, the song somewhat stagnates by its second minute, perhaps because the gild of coincidental parts loses its initial luster, and, in light of the honest production, a paucity of ideas becomes apparent. In this respect, the longer but infinitely more developed \"Your Motivation Is: Less Like This\" fares better, capitalizing on heavy reverb, healthy vocal melodies, and prominent basslines, and continues to traverse new ground six minutes in. Drums play a more dominant role in other parts of the album, adding just enough punch to songs like \"The Sun Provides Vitamin D\" to temporarily compensate for the familiar 16thnote MNML pulses that seem all too convenient for the band to synch their individual parts to. This guise, unfortunately, fails to conceal the song's uninteresting modulations and good but eventually tired hooks. S PRCSS as a project is incredibly tight, but perhaps sterile as a consequence. \"I'm a Motorcycle Drummer\", for its killer syncopation and haunting female vocals, should be more effective than it is. To a lesser extent, the same goes for \"I Call I Gorilla (Mountain Lifter)\", a twominute power rocker with some seriously great vocal work for all its excitement, the end of the song seems contained and nonthreatening. It's an unorthodox thing to say, but I wanted to hear more mistakes on Taste Like Daughter. It's simply too precise, and as a result, lacks the immediacy and spontaneity expected from its genre. As a closer, \"Give the Beaches to the People\" is a good summation of what S PRCSS has accomplished so far, and what lies in store for them if they choose to continue in this direction. Stuffed with hooks and catchy vocals, the song retreads typically energized territory, but then launches into the album's first bonafide riff: all instrumentation drops out to a bassline that's eager to rise to this solo occasion. It's flatout sick, and in the last 30 seconds of the song, the drums and guitars just chase the line to no avail. It's the album's most blatant battle wound, an unexpected break from precise S PRCSS stratego, but the payoff is huge. The band could stand to indulge in more of these sanguine moments. "}