{"label":" Barsuk","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7643/homepage_large.6e378b21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Jesse Sykes & the Sweet Hereafter","title":"Oh, My Girl","text":" There's no way around that voice. On her second album leading The Sweet Hereafter, Jesse Sykes tries valiantly to showcase her crack backing band, favoring phrasing that leaves room for Phil Wandscher's meticulously crafted guitar peels, or a subtle mood affirmation from violinist Anne Marie Ruljancich. But the sailors know it's Sykes' alto dashing ships on the rocks, and challenging the altcountry tag at the same time. \"Your black eyes remind me/ Of the dreaming dead,\" Sykes sings over some kind of reworked psychfolk rhythm, and she sounds like a suddenly unshy Chan Marshall flirting dangerously with her inner Arthur Lee.Hailing from the wet winds of Seattle, Jesse and Wandscher together with Ruljancich, bassist Bill Herzog, and consistently understated drummer Kevin Warner have been crafting sleepy meditations on American music and the human condition since 2002's gorgeously strongjawed Reckless Burning. Still, it's Oh, My Girl that will give them their due, since (paging Seth Cohen and Death Cab for Cutie) their new label, Barsuk, has promotional balls. Example? Girl recently broke through to the l'il smokies 'n' cocktails affluence crowd with a fawning review on NPR's All Things Considered. Damn right it was fawning with their new record, Sykes and The Sweet Hereafter easily trample the confining fences of y'allternative, instead aiming steadily for mystery salons held in the narthexes of brokedown cathedrals.\"He took the fall/ 'Cause some things in life are still worth a good brawl.\" \"Tell the Boys\"' hardhours morning light shuffle is only a blank page for Sykes' pointed suggestion of a lyric. The story doesn't finish there's regret, and people getting sober, and the title's resigned request but the images shuttle through Wandscher's guitar leads like otherworldly newsreels. On \"You Are Not Gotten Here\", Ruljancich's violin suggests the brittle melancholy of Nick Drake's \"Cello Song\", but there's something purer and darker in Sykes singing \"there's fire on your tongue,\" backed up by guitars that are either sad drinking partners or friends enlisted to help bury a body.As striking and evocative as Jesse Sykes & The Sweet Hereafter can be, many will map their favorite spots. Yes, Oh, My Girl does continually return carrier pigeonlike to the warm comfort between Sykes' elongated vowels and Wandscher's inky twang leads. But isn't this is what we want? One or two notes of that prairie fire smoke and we're hooked on Sykes' vocal; her supporting players are proven soultweak pros. We want our Americana to resonate with a mixture of warmth and scratch, of death and love. And, like a trusty old radio, Oh, My Girl delivers. \"Troubled Soul\" and \"Winter Hunter\" are as tart as Washington apples, alive with feeling but sweetly, sultrily inviting. This is the album of sad beauty the Scud Mountain Boys were too suicidal to make; it's what happens when fronting on style is shunned in favor of inventive songwriting that focuses (perhaps too closely, but whatever) on the unique talents of a lineup.Throughout Oh, My Girl, it always seems like Sykes and her people are holding back, as if they might throw the cloak off a thundering acoustic version of Heart's \"Magic Man\" at any moment, and send us all caterwauling back to a time when genres weren't micromanaged, bras weren't worn, and evocation was a necessity borne with learning how to sing. This never quite happens, though the weird psychedelic overtones that keep welling up do wonders for overactive imaginations wishing to contextualize Girl as an understated look at the legacy of late60s/early70s rock. They could be Heart if they wanted to, no question. But Sykes, the amazing Wandscher, and their talented mates have chosen instead to make something wholly their own, settled on a shore of rocky emotions, sweeping, concealing dune grass, and caves that lead to sad echoes and who knows what else. In those dark places cut into the earth, Sykes' sinewy vocal is like a canary with a cigarette. "}