{"label":" Motown","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7646/homepage_large.fa62ee1f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jamin Warren","artist":"Erick Sermon","title":"Chilltown, New York","text":" For rappers, no never means no. Even when the world has duly rejected their latest reunion/remix/throwback record, few MCs ever bow out gracefully. For all you exretired rappers in the midst of illfated comebacks (cough, Ma$e), recognize the intellect of EPMD's better half, Mr. Erick Sermon. More than 15 years after the release of Strictly Business, the greeneyed bandit still switchhits, producing and rapping on a solid hiphop release that skillfully blends an oldschool aesthetic with a Class of '04 flow.Chilltown opens with an impressive agenda. Against the dreary MIDI brass and pale keys of \"Home\", Sermon drifts from one critique to another, boasting that he's one of the last old heads yet to be snared in gilded web of commercial hippop: \"You won't hear the bling or the champagne. Nuttin'/ Won't hear a nigga on the microphone frontin'/ And no love songs, I'm not serenadin'/ I'm just narratin' the streets on my beat.\" Without naming names, Sermon makes his mission clear: to snatch back hiphop at any cost. Two tracks later, on \"Relentless\", he spits pure fire, volleys another diatribe against the industry, and restates his thesis, claiming to \"punish the game for its foul behavior.\" What separates Sermon from his pedantic underground counterparts who hopelessly eschew the mainstream with an unwavering (and often obnoxious) conviction is that he treats his genre as a fallen and commodified art, yet still acknowledges its beauty and potential. His production credits for headliners like JayZ and Ja Rule may reek of contradiction but Sermon dissipates any wisp of duplicity with the JudeoChristian credo: Don't hate the player, hate the game. Filling the Kanyeinhabited space between mainstream and underground, Erick Sermon further blurs the line by adopting the timeless ethos of sniping sucka MCs while still opening his doors to a polished commercial thump. Besides, you can't hate Edub; he's just too nice on the mic. Sermon boasts both his production and rapping talents on \"Wit EE's\", rocking against a dancing, woodpercussion club banger and flaunting microphone gymnastics with ease. He dismisses any potential opponent with two 16bar dynamos, rhyming each one with the song's title. On \"Chillin'\", Sermon, Talib Kweli, and Rah Digga (er, Whip Montez) deliver animated verses over sparse, tinkling bleeps and a loitering breakbeat, weaving seamlessly with each alternating verse. Sermon puts his authenticity plainly: \"I sound like me/ You sound like JayZ.\" No doubt, Chilltown consistently delivers solid hiphop cuts. But in comparison to his 2002 release React, Sermon's well of creativity might be running dry. For a producer who's pushed the past decade just as much as he's adapted to it, Sermon is starting to show his age. When he showcases the funk on tracks like \"Feel It\", the man can't be touched. But when he tries his hand at hiphop soul on \"Do You Know\", he can only muster a lazy derivative with Dahlia Anderson doing karaoke Mary J. Blige. And although Sermon splits his time between New York and Atlanta, you wouldn't know it from \"Future Thug\", on which he overcompensates with greasy organs and makeshift scratching, only adding to the growing list of listless Southern bounce tracks. Still, Chilltown charts more wins than losses, giving us a taste of Sermon's homecooked, bassheavy goodness. Although his versatility is peerless, it's scary to thank that E. soon might not have anything left to say in the booth or on the boards. Sermon could easily drop dozens betterthanaverage releases until R. Kelly learns to read, but unless he finds another patent, we can only expect more of the same. Sermon's had a long, successful career: If he wants us to remember his best, he'll make Chilltown his last. "}