{"label":" AUM Fidelity","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7647/homepage_large.8b00d03c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Shrimp Boat","title":"Something Grand","text":" If you're a typical indie rock fan, you probably hear that you follow obscure bands because they make you look good, because your niche tastes set you apart, and because your music snobbery won't allow you to enjoy anything that's on the radio. But you probably wish, for the one or two best unknown bands that you've discovered, that more people had heard them. A band like that never leaves behind enough recordings. They put out more homeburned CDRs or handlabeled cassettes than actual CDs, score an indie label deal that falls apart one album later, and only make it into the studio by the time that their set has changed three times, leaving all the early songs in the dustbin. You know what the rest of the world is missing, but you have no proof. So I'll admit my heart went out to AUM Fidelity's Steven Joerg when he told me that he actually founded his label with the hopes of finishing this project, a multidisc collection of music by Chicago's Shrimp Boat. And the final product is the kind of compilation that's better than the sum of its recordings. In 3 CDs (4 if you get a copy with the bonus disc), Something Grand features entirely outofprint or unreleased material, without repeating any of the songs on the two Shrimp Boat records that are still in print. (Duende and Cavale, on Bar/None, are both highly recommended, but only offer a snapshot band's history. Something Grand documents the whole story.) Shrimp Boat remain a legend from the start of Chicago's early 90s rock renaissance, flourishing right before Billboard put the city on the map as a postSeattle grunge factory; Shrimp Boat's Brad Wood recorded and played with Liz Phair, among others, and Sam Prekop and Eric Claridge went on to form The Sea & Cake, which includes John McEntire, who plays with all of the bands that, like them or not, make up the Chicago postrock scene. As the root of all of these influences, Shrimp Boat is better known by reputation than recordings. The three highminded art school students who formed the band in 1985 proudly didn't know their instruments. (That was also a requirement for Wood, a successful recording engineer who had learned the drums after the other members dragged him into the band.) The earliest recordings, which feature the lineup of Ian Schneller, Sam Prekop and David Kroll, are acoustic and shambolic, kicking off the set with the tunelessly meandering banjo on \"Rocks are Oil\", the hypnotically circular \"Collecting Me\" with Kroll's keening, inexpert saxophone, or the midgetarmy martial drums on \"Only Making Fools\". The songs sound exactly like when your roommate who's learning guitar finds four notes that sound great together and repeats them until you're sick, except they're great; and Prekop's slurred vocals distort the lyrics which, according to the MilesDavisboxsetquality liner notes, were mostly made up back then anyway.Something Grand also includes tape collage experiments, most tiresomely on a 12minute instrumental that slouches across Ollie North's IranContra testimony, but these artschool excesses are shunted aside by the short and deeply unpretentious songwriting that the band once described as \"Midwestern folk.\" The liner notes describe the \"circle dances\" that would spontaneously start at their gigs at Phyllis' Musical Inn, where the openfaced friendliness that covered their harsh noise noodling would inspire the crowd to dance and stomp together around the bar. The first disc is full of these pieces, some better than others, and many of them come from the barely released cassettes that the band sold at gigs. The earliest Shrimp Boat shows were long, improvised jams that cleared out many pretentious loft parties, but by the time they started recording to fourtrack, they were writing actual songs and assembling actual sets. Discs two and three introduce them as a \"real band,\" through live recordings from clubs and college radio sets, and outtakes from their two main longplayers. Duende and Cavale collected the strongest of the band's material, and discs two and three of Something Grand admittedly focus on outtakes and oddities Wood and Joe Vajarsky on sax unwinding with \"I Loves You, Porgy\", or experiments with the vocal tracks from \"Limerick\" and \"Oranges\". But this is more than a Bsides collection. Hearing the band evolve on these albums helps explain the wild stylistic leaps from pop to rock to blueeyed soul on Cavale, and the concerts \"Medea Rising\" or \"Draught '43\", where the crowd's shouts punctuate the song capture the live side of the band. Shrimp Boat became clean and tight, and Prekop's idiosyncratic voice has more confidence, finessing his barks and yelps while developing the gaspy credulity and breathy wonder that dominate his style today. The real odds and sods are confined to the bonus disc, which ships with the first 2,000 copies of the set. This fourth disc includes a lot of sludgy old recordings and working tapes, as well as some strong, straightforward live cuts. Listening to this material can make you wonder: What if they had simplified the jams, streamlined Prekop's emoting and turned into the Dave Matthews Band? Or dumbed down to dirgey rock songs and fallen in line behind Veruca Salt and Red Red Meat to make a small dent on alternative radio? What would Beavis and Butthead have done with a video for \"Free Love Overdrive\"? \"Chicago's Shrimp Boat are the best band on the planet,\" gasped CMJ in 1990. (And you thought Pitchfork was hyperbolic.) But before they could take over, tensions inside the band caused first Brad Wood to quit, and then the rest of the members to disband. The Sea & Cake retains the unironic pleasure of Shrimp Boat's material, but refines it to glasslike perfection on their laptoponthebeach albums, like last year's One Bedroom. Ian Schneller went on to form Falstaff, and build musical instruments under the company name Specimen Products. Brad Wood now produces records in L.A., and although his early work with Liz Phair like the barest tracks on WhipSmart evoked some of Shrimp Boat's later, hazy afternoononMilwaukeeAvenue laziness, he most recently got acclaim offBroadway for producing the soundtrack to Hedwig and the Angry Inch. David Kroll quit the band even earlier, to paint, and his recent work graces the covers of this set. If this box set were a movie, it would tell your generic comingofage story except that most bands at this level never tell the whole story, except through the occasional bonus demo tracks. Something Grand is more than a scrapbook: It completes the fossil record of a legendary indie rock group, sets the trajectories for the guys who learned to make music in this band, and revives four hours of floorbeating, drunkenly whirling, homemade Midwestern circle dances. "}