{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7650/homepage_large.1ce413ff.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Sons and Daughters","title":"Love the Cup EP","text":" In the music industry, it's not always all about who you know, but it certainly doesn't hurt to have wellplaced friends. Glasgow's Sons & Daughters are about as wellconnected as you could be. Their debut EP was first released late last year on former Matador publicist/Badaboom Gramophone publisher Ben Goldberg's Ba Da Bing! label; then, 2004 itband Franz Ferdinand invited the band to open on their U.S. tour, whereupon Domino Records saw fit to reissue the disc. Which is not to say that the band aren't deserving of attention, just that they're lucky. Perhaps one reason they didn't have to work too hard to get their music heard is because they display quite a lot of potential. These two guys and girls (hence the name) prominently exhibit the heavy influence of Highland folk and American rockabilly, but they also have a modern rhythmic dynamism that places them very logically on a stage in front of Franz Ferdinand. Their fusion of punk aesthetics and traditional rock elements calls to mind the Mekons, though it's far more aggressively hybridized and less reverent than that of Jon Langford's crew. Sons & Daughters simply pull together whatever elements they need for the song in question, and wind up with a distinctive brand of spaciously recorded AngloAmerican murder pop. Drummer David Gow morphs the shuffle of classic rockabilly into a hard, roughedged groove to provide the band's basic drive, while the vocal tradeoff between Adele Bethel's forceful alto croon and Scott Paterson's broguecoated deadpan is somewhat reminiscent of fellow Scots Prolapse (albeit in a completely different musical context). Ailidh Lennon's mandolin lends the music an unmistakably Scottish flair, even amidst the unadorned postpunk guitar scratching that serve as the meat and potatoes of the band's sound. All of these elements are perfectly in place and balanced on opener \"Fight\", Bethel's eerily calm delivery meditating the song's rhythmic thrust and swagger. The undeniable highlight of the EP is \"Johnny Cash\", kicking in with a lightly distorted guitar riff and a swinging percussive stomp that carries the Patersonsung verses. The band explodes into the chorus, with all hands on deck for the shouted vocals as the bass and guitar sweep from side to side like a wayward roller coaster. \"Blood\" careens over a furious postdisco stomp and carries subdued male/female harmonies in its quicktongued verses, rising to the controlled outburst of the refrain, while closer \"Awkward Duet\" is the disc's big comedown, laying a delicate melody over Appalachian fingerpicking and militaristic drums. The song has a tense electricity to it that Bethel's hazy delivery oddly plays into this is a band that never turns it all the way up to ten, and still somehow manages to sound loud and manic. As their functional debut (their first EP, The Lovers, was selfreleased and not widely heard), Love the Cup presents Sons & Daughters as a dynamic and potentially awesome band. Even if they're not nearly the greatest band in Britain, as the members of Franz Ferdinand like to claim, Love the Cup displays a broad range and distinct sound that could soon make them one of the better ones. "}