{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7654/homepage_large.190bbed2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"Sixtoo","title":"Chewing Glass & Other Miracle Cures","text":" If the name of electronica's game in 2004 is acoustic proficiency, Robert Squire, better known as Sixtoo, may be a leading contender for Rookie of the Year. Granted, the Canadian artist has a few releases under his belt, but Chewing Glass & Other Miracle Cures represents a marked departure from Sixtoo's underground hiphop roots and, in effect, serves as an ideal (re)introduction to one of Ninja Tune's most promising new additions. Where Sixtoo differs from so many artists that beg a quick glance in the DJ Shadow Thesaurus is his newfound reliance on live instrumentation. Squire has humbly described this album as a \"learning experience\" in the arrangement of live instruments, but tracks like the threepart \"Boxcutter Emporium\" suite, each deliberate and subtly constructed amalgams of abstract electronic flourishes and live drum and bass accompaniment, demonstrate an emerging mastery of dark triphop composition. Recent touchstones include tourmates Blockhead and DJ Signify, whose collaborations with Sage Francis and Buck 65 are echoed in Sixtoo's few MC appearances. On \"Funny Sticks (Reprise)\" a spare rendition of the original \"Funny Sticks\" from 2001's Antagonist Survival Kit and \"Horse Drawn Carriage\", Sixtoo exhibits an awareness of his limitations as a rapper, and channels all of his energies as a lyricist into these limited appearances on the mic. \"Sticks\" is an enraged expression of class unrest, and \"Carriage\", rapped in Buck 65's style of broken poetry, is an abstract exploration of guilt and vanity. Sixtoo doesn't quite equal the skills of his former Anticon collaborators, but these tracks provide an adequate bridge between his intricate acoustic compositions and former hiphop gloom. Contributions from Godspeed You! Black Emperor cellist Norsola Johnson and bassist Thierry Amar blend seamlessly with Sixtoo's arrangements; Johnson's somber cello accompaniment is a standout on \"Snake Bite\", an ominous slow jam steeped in buzzing lofi distortion. Eric Craven from The Hanged Up and Matt Kelly provide further support on drums and keyboard/guitar, respectively, and actually outshine their GYBE! contemporaries on a few occasions. Kelly's effects and overdubs on Rhodes and Stylophone (a creepysounding little organ that's currently my favorite instrument of all time) on the sublime \"Old Days Architecture\" constitute an album highlight, while Craven's live drumming flawlessly fuses with Sixtoo's frenetic electronic beats. The real scenestealer, though, is Can's Damo Suzuki, whose improvised vocals on \"Storm Clouds & Silver Linings\" propel the album's most disorienting and defining track. Backward tape manipulation shapes and fractures a frantic looped breakbeat, which spits and stutters behind Suzuki's vocals, and a slithering, nearly amorphous bassline and piercing guitar stabs further elevate the song's nightmarish qualities. About midway through the track, Suzuki drops his hushed whispers and offtune singing for a bizarre, throaty intonation that suggests some kind of perverse Louis Armstrong/Yamatsuka Eye hybrid. The album's only significant fault is an overabundance of Bmaterial and filler, which creates a distinct lag in the album's middle section. \"Transient Control\" and \"Chainsaw Buffet\" suffer from an overextension of vaguely intriguing but repetitive musical ideas, and tracks like \"The Honesty of Constant Human Error\" fall prey to atypically aimless jamming. The album's filler is made all the more conspicuous by Sixtoo's admittance in his liner notes that this style of composition is \"risky\" and can often sound \"weak.\" On future releases, he would do well to take his own apprehension to meandering improvisation closer to heart. Fortunately, Sixtoo is as confident in his composing abilities as he is aware of his weaknesses, and this can certainly be considered his watershed album. Where so many electronic artists demonstrate their \"legitimate\" acoustic abilities with the insistence of a neglected studio musician, Sixtoo's development as live musician and composer comes across as natural and wellsuited to his talents. In the morass of this year's more indulgent statements of acoustic aptitude, Chewing Glass & Other Miracle Cures stands out as an admirably genuine fusion of acoustic composition with the sensibilities of electronic music. "}