{"label":" Frenchkiss","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7664/homepage_large.fef95cb2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Smoke and Smoke","title":"Love Suffers Long","text":" This is the most salient thing I can tell you about Smoke and Smoke: They don't give a fuck. They really don't. Over the tumbling drums and righteously acidic riffing of \"Into the Smoke and Smoke\", Spencer Moody reminds us, \"You're gravely mistaken if you think for a second that Smoke and Smoke give a fuckfuckfuck\". Even when that's not being overtly rammed home, disdain and apathy incessantly seep out of the strident, repetitive chords and tarstained screeds that sear across their debut album nine tracks wrapped up in only about twice that many minutes. Misanthropy's not just Smoke and Smoke's guiding principle it's their very medium; their hookless lofi brutality seems built from the stuff. Love Suffers Long is a sustained musical middle finger that, behind a stonefaced aspect, is chuckling ironically about the banality of the gesture and wondering who would be na\\x95ve enough to think it mattered. With this kind of automatic cred, I guess you can get away with it. Follow the tendrils of smoke as they furl: Smoke and Smoke is comprised of Spencer Moody, Mike Kunka, and Dan Haugh. Kunka and Haugh played together in godheadSilo (Kunka was also in Enemymine), and Smoke and Smoke's musical style could be described as a much more streamlined version of those bands' grinding, repetitive protopunk. It's perhaps a wounded version of it, which would be apt, considering that godheadSilo went kaput when Haugh injured the tendons in his left arm, and Dead Low Tide, the band Kunka played in with singer Spencer Moody (told you it was going to get twisted), fizzled when Kunka was sick for more than year with whooping cough (dude whooping cough? What's next, rickets?). Moody is best known as the singer for Murder City Devils, but here he gruffly rants more than sings, even less melodically than his MCD style. His repertoire of Fauvist koans, bad jokes, skewed aphorisms, and lyrical anticlimaxes evoke his pal and tourmate Tim Harrington, another fuming artpunk trapped in the body of a beardfolker. (Visually, Moody's a deadringer for Harrington beard, paunch, and all.) Within the echo chamber of stabbing guitars that is \"Strike Lightning Strike\", he offers: \"The forest was already on fire when the lightning struck,\" and on the chaotic, staccato throb of opening track \"How Did the Cook Get His Finger Stuck in the Dishwasher?\", Moody checks in with a winking groaner of a punch line: \"I don't know, but they both got fired.\" The collision of Moody's snarled soliloquies with his bandmates' strangely inert, slogging foundations often evokes another professional cynic, Steve Albini, singing about \"real squirrels\" on 1,000 Hurts, particularly on absurdist dirges like \"Bathrobe Jacket\", with its curious refrain, \"Bathrobe jacket, ascot towel\". On \"Throw the Lever\", with its drunken wobble and seesawing melody, they come across like a nowave Hold Steady. The tacit message seems to be that trying is for suckers, and caring about anything, passe. In one illuminating example, the band's online blog states: \"Our fulllength, Love Suffers Long (I think that's what it's called), will be released this coming Tuesday.\" It's not exactly a new pose for rock music, but worth mentioning for the fact that Smoke and Smoke have managed to boil furious indifference down to its most basic essence. The album's liverecording style only bolsters the effect: You don't feel as if the music really wants to be listened to, and at the end of each song, it's not hard to imagine that you've wandered into Smoke and Smoke's practice space and they've abruptly stopped playing to gaze at you with mild irritation, appalled by the incredible imposition. "}