{"label":" Darla / Acuarela","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7667/homepage_large.2215de17.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"The Strugglers","title":"The Fair Store","text":" Certain bands become so emblematic that comparisons to them lose meaning. Radiohead is one sterling example. Fugazi is another. The Beatles, natch. And if you play acoustic, folky music with a sinister edge and don't want to be compared to Will Oldham, your best bet is to shave daily. But drawing bands into constellations of similarity is de rigueur in music reviews, not to mention their most serviceable function for readers who want buying guides rather than insight. What does the conscientious critic do when a band comes along who sounds like a lionized reference point in a meaningful way? To ignore it seems a slight to the reader; to mention it, a slight to the musician. It seems the wisest course is to touch upon the similarity, but not to harp on it. When listening to The Stugglers's new EP, The Fair Store, Palace Music's Viva Last Blues instantly comes to mind: The ominous, spare folk, classic poprock traces, and faintly cracking vocals are of a piece with it. And since principal Struggler Randy Bickford doesn't even have a beard, you know I really mean it. But A Fair Store doesn't feel like a Palace facsimile Bickford doesn't sing about fucking mountains or anything, although he did contribute a great take on \"Riding\" to Tract's recent Oldham tribute it just happens to be tonally congruent. It isn't dificult to understand why simplistic, lofi folk that blends modernity and antiquity is popular: It pares music down to a naked, vulnerable state where it'll stand or fall by the smallest gestures of melody, phrasing, and mood. When it doesn't work, it's usually still pleasant, if anonymous. When it does as in the hands of Oldham, Sam Beam, John Darnielle, and yes, Bickford it's often powerful. In lofi folk, a distinctive voice is a must: Bickford's is strong and resonant, richly inflected, exhibiting its range most fully on the mobile melody that snakes over the strummed guitar and wistful pedal steel of \"Goodness Gracious\", and the aching, flaring inflections of the plodding title track. His voice's soft, faltering tendencies balance its steely edge. It attains the precarious ratio of gentleness to rawness that makes a singer memorable. The melodies are winning and straightforward, laced with understated crescendos and tightly controlled flourishes. The clipped guitar and piano of \"Until I Slept\", like most of the EP, manages to be both sweet and bracing. A Fair Store is the most \"produced\" effort we've heard from The Strugglers. Its guitars, drums, piano, and pedal steel are arrayed in tidy procession, but are still played close to the bone. The melody of \"Light Weight\" seems a bit defanged; otherwise, the EP is clean but not sterile, and it retains a homegrown appeal. The lyrics are unostentatious and the imagery is stark the personal opens up into the universal thanks to Bickford's suggestive, elliptical couplets. In the end, the personal/universal dichotomy is essential. To be effective, the genre sometimes called \"beardfolk\" must be at once specific as it's so strongly rooted in personal experience and general enough not to abandon folk's long history of palpating the collective and transmitting heritage. It must be old and new at the same time. It's musicians such as Bickford pursuing individuality while honoring the greater tradition who distinguish themselves from the legion. "}