{"label":" Hanson","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7690/homepage_large.a586be7a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Smegma","title":"Rumblings","text":" Noise fans might recognize Smegma from a collaborative album with Wolf Eyes called Beast. But if Smegma can be considered part of that scene, it's only by default: they've been making their psychedelic freejazz noise for more than 25 years. They began by helping to found the Los Angeles Free Music Society, and have collaborated with everyone from Wild Man Fischer to Merzbow to the infamous rock critic Richard Meltzer along the way. The noise scene has grown unto them while they've kept a low profile and persistently crafted their avantgarde improvisations under the radar, firmly outside of the mainstream due to their confrontational sonics and formless compositions. (And, just maybe, the fact they named their band after uncircumcised dick leak.) My first exposure to Smegma was from somewhere less expected: The Completed Soundtrack for The Tropic of Nipples, in which Meltzer and Robert Pollard filled opposing tracks with fauxbeat poetry over freejazz and punk rock backing bands, respectively, each competing for the best nonsequitur. (One of my favorites: \"There's no need for senseless bloodshed/ The mosquitoes dropped their javelins and looked on/ Oh man, far out, it's king frog\") Smegma provided the soundtrack to Meltzer's contributions, and he's since become their singer under the alias \"Borneo Jimmy\". Just because there are vocals doesn't make Semgma's music any more accessible. Meltzer's voice is another disorienting texture, another oblong puzzle piece where we need a corner. Whispering different euphemisms for the homeless and hamburgers has never been creepier than on the scraping and squealing of \"Bunstuffer\", and the morale of the story told in \"Worms\" will make sense to only the most devoted alleyway wino. If there are themes present in Meltzer's rambling streetcorner fables, they're still not a hook to hold onto, so don't think Smegma less challenging for having a \"vocalist\"; if anything, they're more so. Despite the names mentioned above, Rumblings is not an album of tranceinducing sine waves or facestabbing feedback; Smegma create a unique cacophony from tape loops, blurting horns, pots and pans, sheet metal, radio static, duck calls, and Meltzer's ramblings. Thinking about Rumblings in terms of free jazz is more useful than contemporary noise analogues, but there's still potential to be hypnotized by the sounds on Rumblings. Tracks like \"Rails (Unhinged)\" blend the faraway sound of typewriters and office equipment, along with what sounds like an unmanned grocery cart rolling down an asphalt incline, into a calming and evocative soundscape. \"In an Ornamental Garden\" mixes the squealing saxophone that dominates Rumblings with traditional Eastern flutes and strings, and even harsher songs like \"Electron\" or \"Fool For You...\" give quirky interruptions to their droning, belying a sense of humor under the claustrophobic choas. The really strange parts are when they actually try to play their instruments and veer into trashy, incompetent punk. Just when I think they're clever confrantationalists, they go and rationalize the argument that avantgarde musicians \"just can't really play\" songs like \"Moonleggs\", \"Worms\", and \"Rumblings\" sound like a completely different band, a group of wannabe rockabilly misfits making up songs in the garage. Smegma aren't just avantgarde, they're committed to staying amateurishly campy, balancing their cacophonies with earnest attempts at openmicnight punk. Whatever you want to call it \"noise\" doesn't quite cut it they're consistent about it, and they're unwaveringly dedicated to confounding audiences with their outsider rock. "}