{"label":" Flameshovel","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7696/homepage_large.858be2d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Sybris","title":"Sybris","text":" The \"Alternative\" tag that often pops up in iTunes seems absurdly dated by now, unless you're downloading Pearl Jam records. But it actually fits Sybris, a new band running contrary to several current trends and instead revitalizing the sensibility of 1990s, singeroriented alternarock. Many modern indie bands, from Animal Collective to Architecture in Helsinki, revolve around genrehopping eclecticism and fluctuating bandmember duties a denaturing of the bandashierarchy aesthetic. Sybris hark back to the Smashing Pumpkins model, when bands were interested in making what we used to call the Unified Statement, not rummaging though through genres like a trunk full of costume jewelry, and when roles were more concrete less instrument swapping, more stability. Here in the aughties, we've also seen the regression of the singerasdrivingforce, with more emphasis on wholeband harmonies, multiple singers, and quirky embellishments. Sybris's debut LP is more in the vein of bands that put a charismatic singer in front of strong yet unflashy musicians. The vocals and the music are always clearly demarcated while the latter is competent, powerful, and indispensable to the album's success, it maintains a uniform tone that doesn't distract from the centerpiece (vocalist Angela Mullenhour), even at its most thunderous. This singerfirst, bandsecond sensibility, and the consistent temperament of the songs, is what makes Sybris resonate with Life Without Buildings (without the chirruping vocal tics) and Yeah Yeah Yeahs (without the artitude), two other band who updated this same model for the modern setting.  \"The Best Day in History in Ever\" opens with a percussive throb and fluid, concise guitar lead that makes one picture Karen O doing judo warmups with a mic stand. But this is where the two diverge: Yeah Yeah Yeahs might abruptly ramp the song up to a yowling blues splatter, but Mullenhour puts on her best Edie Brickell coo as her band rolls smoothly through understated dynamic shifts, building incrementally to a thrashing middle section, sinking through a quiet descent, then a upwelling to a mountainous, distortiondrenched recrescendo. \"You're Only Confident in Your Insecurities\" opens with a fuckall '90s guitar jangle, then edges crisply to a popmetal stomp, the music and vocals intensifying as one. Even the coffeeshop strum of \"Blame It on the Baseball\" is made magnetic by Mullenhour's authoritative vocal turn, a blend of raw emotion and melodic control, and by the shimmering, stormy shoegaze it gradually melts into.  I like wildlyvaried instrumentation and genrehopping as much as the next musically savvy mid20s dude. But the stuff can be exhausting, sending me scrambling for a Leonard Cohen comedown. Sybris's long songs, tonal contiguity, deliberate pacing, and infectious melodies are more than pleasant but less than bracing just right. They require no palliative countermeasure, and when the disc ends, there's no compulsion to rush to the changer why not just let it spin once more?  "}