{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7698/homepage_large.17a4e831.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Stromba","title":"Tales From the Sitting Room","text":" Tales From the Sitting Room, the debut fulllength from Stromba, twists expectations even after repeated listens. For listeners who caught the disco stomp of the \"Giddy Up\" single from last year, you'll be surprised to hear such a downtempo record heavy with the influence of dub. For those tuning in to hear a modern dub album, close listening reveals that most of this is played live, with reverberating drums and echoing samples introduced at just the right moments, adding a cunning electronic sheen to what's essentially a live jazz record. Even in a postrock, posttriphop, postwhatever world, Stromba have blurred the line between producer and musician in subtle and occasionally stunning ways, and written some cool tracks to boot. The production team of James Dyer and Tom Tyler and their musical guests on trumpet, melodica, violin, other horns, and percussion are a detailoriented bunch, crafting careful arrangements with small surprises in each. \"Swamp Donkey\" builds a slowmoving dervish out of African percussion before dropping off halfway into smooth wahwah bass, kicking an extra bit of melody into their keeneared cultural plundering. While \"Septic Skank\" and \"Manphibian\" are pure, creeping dub, the following \"Blue Skin\" starts with rollicking midtempo drums and trumpet over a watery drone, then introduces a pleading female vocal sample just before a steady bassline and distorted guitar, transforming dubby jazz into suspenseful soundtrack work. There's a few missteps, like the cloying nylonstring plucking of the closing track \"Jewell\", but it's the price paid for the diversity from track to track. It's a dabbler of a record, without the improvisation of jazz or the subtle shifts of techno, simply providing an assortment of great sounds. From the syncopated swing of \"Percolator\" to the horns that reach an atonal climax on \"Swings and Roundabouts\", Sitting Room is a soundtrack waiting for a movie. If anything, this record is a little too canny, robbing easy touchstones from the hippest genres. I envision Dyer and Tyler as two goateestroking trainspotters with swelled, distented craniums, able to assimilate incidental music from any source into a perfect pastiche. However, Sitting Room is grounded by their taste as producers and by the album's dogged restraint. Aside from the reappearance of \"Giddy Up\", it's consistently downtempo and even through its twists and turns holds a little something back, letting the listener fill in the blank. "}