{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7699/homepage_large.3a32142a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Mark Stewart","title":"Kiss the Future","text":" Since his work as the frontman of the seminal UK postpunk combo the Pop Group, the fascinating, enigmatic Mark Stewart has seldom moved in a straight line, but rather has seemed to ripple in a series of concentric circles, with each successive ring expanding to absorb an everwider array of styles and subgenres. As a solo act and with his bevy of talented collaborators, Stewart's sound has encompassed fractured strains of punk, funk, avant dub, free jazz, and dancehall, and has always been infused with his distinctive rabblerousing politics and an ear uncannily pitched to the perpetual reinventions of street culture. Throughout Stewart's career, he's remained a prescient figure, but his restless, thorny innovations have also likely contributed to the erratic nature of his discography. His recent history is pockmarked by extended stretches of inactivity, and many of his key titles including both of the Pop Group's proper studio albums are currently out of print in the U.S. So it's surely with this unruly back catalog in mind that Soul Jazz presents Kiss the Future, a concise retrospective that features tasters from nearly every portion of Stewart's career, including several new or previously unreleased tracks. Containing a mere 12 songs, Kiss the Future is more of a strategic strike than a comprehensive introduction, as it represents whole periods of Stewart's career with only a track or two, and ignores some of his albums entirely. And though the set provides a tantalizing, remarkably unified glimpse at some of Stewart's most pioneering work, the collection feels so closely edited that one can't escape the notion that too many choice selections were left abandoned on the cutting room floor. At their hotwired best, the Pop Group delivered their experimental, roots reggaeinflected polemics with a barbed ferocity unmatched by few peers this side of the Birthday Party. Kiss the Future includes three vintage 1979 Pop Group blasts (\"We Are All Prostitutes\", \"She Is Beyond Good and Evil\", \"We Are Time\") that tidily anticipate the moves of contemporary postpunk revivalists from Liars to the Ponys. As with all of this collection's best material, these tracks appear to have aged not a day, which is accentuated by the album's nonchronological running order which places them immediately alongside new cuts like \"Radio Freedom\", Stewart's recent grimy, dubbedout collaboration with Kevin \"The Bug\" Martin. Other highlights include several pieces by Stewart's excellent postPop Group outfit the Maffia, which showcased the original Sugerhill Gang rhythm section of guitarist Skip McDonald, bassist Doug Wimbish, and drummer Keith LeBlanc. On tracks like \"High Ideals and Crazy Dreams\" or \"Hypnotized\" (presented in its 12\" version) the Maffia expel grainy, industrial smears of noisefunk, carrying the type of rugged sonic scars typically associated with a beloved, overduped cassette tape. Best of all might be \"Jerusalem\", an expressionist, cutup take on William Blake's traditional tune that features a spectral brass band periodically marching through in a narcotic haze. Like the bulk of Kiss the Future, it's a track that somehow manages to sound simultaneously familiar yet revolutionary (not bad for a nearly 25yearold recording) and serves to powerfully whet the appetite for the hopefully nottoodistant future when more of Stewart's keenly farseeing works are once again easier to come by. "}