{"label":" Secret Eye","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7700/homepage_large.b9280e12.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Spires That in the Sunset Rise","title":"Four Winds the Walker","text":" Spires That in the Sunset Rise are a Chicagobased, allfemale quartet whose ecstatic, communal psychfolk draws on the same fragrant smoke that fed the otherworldly likes of such vintage acts as Comus, Jan Dukes De Grey, or COB, as well as on the cryptoethnicity of the Sun City Girls' Carnival Folklore Resurrection series or the Gothic spiritualism of Current 93. On their second album Four Winds the Walker, the foursome emit such inspired gusts of collective fire that they resemble a witches' coven almost as much as a band, their shadowdraped music seeming to issue forth organically from the soil like a sulfurous hot spring. The group consists of Georgia Vallas, Kathleen Baird, Tracy Peterson, and Taralie Peterson, whose supremely scrambled solo work The Artist Revealed is Tarlie Dawn was released under the name Tar Pet earlier this year. Together the four employ a variety of hand percussion and other atypical instrumentation including cello, banjo, African mbira, and Japanese bul bul tarang, all while keeping each musician's individual role fluid and undefined. Hence there is no single lead singer as such, as throughout the album multiple voices swirl and caper from unexpected directions like a swarm of inquisitive fireflies. This freewheeling approach yields strange but alluring fruit on songs like \"Little For a Lot\", where, behind the song's main chorus, the backing vocals appear to be literally mewing like kittens. On more dissonant tracks like \"Sheye\" or the sawing drone of \"Born in a Room\", the vocals sound uncannily like those of Comus' First Utterance, bearing less similarity to traditional pastoral folk than to the theatricality of 70s UK progrock. Perhaps most astonishing of all is \"This Ain't For Mama\", a swirling magic carpet of insectlike hums and tribal percussion that is interjected with strident, almost punkish snarls, conjuring something like an imaginary collaboration between Babes in Toyland's Kat Bjelland and the Master Musicians of Jajouka. Many of the most captivating passages on Four Winds the Walker, however, occur when the Spires stretch their songs and put their restlessly inventive combinations of instruments to work. On cuts like \"Ong Song\" or \"Shining\" the group match their curious string instruments and tuned percussion (or perhaps that's the bul bul tarang I'm hearing) in a manner that recalls Harry Partch's hobo jungle, while the cracked hoedown of \"Imaginary Skin\" features some marvelously bent fiddle that eventually gives way to a wordless vocal hayloft serenade. When operating at their peak, which is the case on much of Four Winds the Walker, Spires That in the Sunset Rise can invoke the unbounded, ageless music one might expect to hear emanating from the deepest forest, as mysterious blackcloaked figures dance around the firering. Whether that sounds more like a warning or an invitation is left up to the traveler. "}