{"label":" Three-One-G","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7701/homepage_large.d247a905.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Some Girls","title":"The DNA Will Have Its Say EP","text":" Some Girls have made it pretty simple for us: either you currently have space in your life for puregrain, 50second hardcore shots with titles like \"Nazi Rodeo\" or \"Don't Hate Me Just 'Cause I Hate You\", or else you don't. Luckily, with The DNA Will Have Its Say you won't need to clear much room at all, as one can blast through these seven tracks in roughly the time it takes to reheat a mediumsized burrito. These may surely come to be cherished minutes for traditionbound punk zealots and as useful talons as any for those of us with the occasional itch but for listeners intent on originality or (not to put too fine a point on it) traceable musical progress, Some Girls sound only too happy to spit upon your daydreams. Arising from the alwaysfertile (and crossbred) San Diego scene, Some Girls form a sort of hardcore supergroup, drawing membership from the ranks of several generally more innovative acts like the Locust, Give Up the Ghost, and Plot to Blow Up the Eiffel Tower. On The DNA the group has, if anything, amplified the ferocity present on the minutelong screeds of their 2003 LP All My Friends Are Going Death, and it's with a fundamentalist fervor that they pare their textbook retropunk down to its rabid core. Needless to say, the brief running time of these tracks virtually eliminates the possibility of any instrumental tangents or digressions, and each winds up carrying less than one percent body fat on its sinewy frame. Fortified by Justin Pearson's distorted bass and the frantic, buriedalive vocals of Wes Eisold, tracks like the quaintly titled opener \"I Need Drugs\" bear some resemblance to the punishing experimental noise of Lightning Bolt. But the hammering Dr. Know (ca.'82) power chords of guitarists Rob Moran and Chuck Rowell wrap these songs in decidedly familiar casings, and the group sounds altogether too content to blithely (albeit rowdily) animate all of hardcore's toastiest chestnuts. The Yeah Yeah Yeah's Karen O makes a cameo on the headlong title track, although her Punk Everywoman shriek is so generic that unless you're sitting on FBIcaliber voice recognition software you're probably gonna have to take their word for it. Her presence here appears to be an oblique nod to a wider punk marketplace, one that's amplified by Some Girls' recent signing with Epitaph. And though there is some delight in the thought of these guys unchaining their vicious archnihilism onto the broader unsuspecting public, one can't help but wish that Some Girls exhibited more ambition to blow minds rather than simply chopping heads. "}