{"label":" Sound in Color","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7718/homepage_large.c2b3bdab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Steve Spacek","title":"Space Shift","text":" There are two reasons why Steve Spacek's new album seems tailormade for the Barnes & Noble listening stations nationwide. The first is purely aesthetic: Space Shift's balance between affable experimentation and familiarity it's essentially soul music, although the cutupness of it wants to be described as neo is perfect for listeners who like their music edgy yet polite. The other is slightly more diabolical, if unintentionally so. Because the thing about listening stations is that no one wants to stand there for very long, ears stewing in imagined bacteria. So it's easy to imagine an impatient listening stationer making it halfway through the first proper track on Space Shift, \"Dollar\", being floored by its offkilter lusciousness (which will turn out to be largely uncharacteristic of the album), and copping it on the assumption that the rest of the album will be just as striking. No such luck: \"Dollar\", it turns out, is something of an anomaly. It seems as if its success can be chalked up less to inspired songwriting on Spacek's part than to the eerie majesty of J Dilla's production, who, turned loose on the whole album, might have transformed Spacek's standard arrangements into something visionary. On \"Dollar\", the drums vividly splash through the track's dark water; Spacek's chopped and filtered voice flits about elusively; one long, sampled syllable drones continuously in the background like a horizon for the jumbled tableau.  Unfortunately, Space Shift never attains such sublimity again, though it brushes it from time to time. \"Thursday\", with its busy squelch and minutely ornate percussion, comes close, although it lacks most of the gusty negative space that makes \"Dollar\" so intense. \"The Hills\" opens promisingly with lush, liquid glissandos, but soon lets out into a pleasantly bouncy (if innocuous) soul track. Spacek's voice is mellifluous, but not distinctive enough to stir much emotion, which really stands out without J Dilla around to rearrange the aural field into something more captivating. The austere funk of \"Reversible Top\" doesn't do much for Spacek's glassy falsetto, nor does the rigid clap of \"Smoke\" flatteringly complement his natural register. So an album that shows signs of striving to be the r&b; Prefuse 73 pulls back from this ambition time and again, plays it safe, and makes at least a few people wish they'd spent a little more time with those sweaty headphones.  "}