{"label":" Sire / Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7722/homepage_large.7ae41d50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"The Subways","title":"Young for Eternity","text":" Never mind the bollocks, the story here lies in marketing. This Hertfordshire trio stands about one million Internet hits away from enacting The Arctic Monkeys Rule, shooting straight up the charts compliments of the Google guys and Al Gore. Also like the Monkeys, the Subways shrewdly shy away from Vinesstyle megalomania or Chris Martin's brand of heavyhanded magnanimity while also remaining as stylistically vague as possible, resembling the last 15 years of rock residue rather than any one or two particular bands. Together with the Monkeys, these guys could start a movement to supersede the UK's Coldplay bloc with a legion of postpubescent bands wielding cool record collections and aboveaverage riffs. For now though, they're just another indie tabula rasa hoping for fans' nostalgia to fill in the blanks. The biggest snag in the band's bubbly, youthful overthrow, as well as what pales them next to the Monkeys, lies in the album title's unfulfilled promise: For a bunch of collegeaged rockers, the Subways sounds haggard and earnest. Blame it on the band's tame, cutesy nature (frontman Billy Lunn and bassist Charlotte Cooper are dating and have a Sonny & Cher callandresponse thing going on many tracks) or the soporific hand of the Coral and I Am Kloot producer Ian Broudie, but too often the rawk they bring feels terribly labored. Case in point, opener \"I Want to Hear What You Have Got to Say\" follows the same soft intro/blaring chorus storyteller formula Franz minted with \"Jacqueline\", though the firstperson plot/plea doesn't stick. The title track really exposes the adrenaline deficit as Lunn rips the riff from Yeah Yeah Yeahs' \"Date With the Night\" for the song's flaccid climax. Of course, the album's not necessarily all limp mimicry and barkoverbite attitude. \"Holiday\" takes a commendable stab at sneering, offthecuff Beatles hard rock รก la Nirvana, and closer \"Somewhere\" bends if not breaks the Britrock stereotype with its chunky prog riffage and unconventional structuring. Unfortunately, there's no messiah to lift up this hohum album up by its bootstraps. Instead we get the AntiChrist, single \"Rock N' Roll Queen\", an allegedly tongueincheek homage to Alice Cooper that has afforded the band an O.C. Mix spot in the U.S. and the highest chart position of their four Top 30 singles at home. Forget hipsters downloading eight different remixes of the track on their iPod Nanos, this single aims for high school football warmup mixes and kegstand background music. Not that there's anything wrong with Jock Jams, but sheesh, who wants a poor man's Libertines album with one foot in the locker room door? "}