{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7728/homepage_large.713617b5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Sound Dimension","title":"Soul Jamaica Shake, Vol. 1","text":" It's difficult to believe that this is the first compilation devoted solely to the Sound Dimension, among the lead authors of one of popular music's greatest chapters. The Sound Dimension reshaped the signature Jamaican afterbeat of ska and rocksteady into the sturdy, versatile riddims of reggae, and the instrumentals they created are still being used as the basis of scores of songs to this day. The early days of reggae, the late60s, saw the birth of the first remix culture, where the basic rhythmic backing tracks of popular vocal hits were given lives of their own, often with the vocals replaced by instrumental solos or keyboard experiments. The Sound Dimension were the house band at Coxsone Dodd's Studio One, and much like Motown's Funk Brothers, they backed dozens of singers on hundreds of hits in their few years together. Unlike the Funk Brothers, though, they were also a widely acknowledged outfit in their own right, with singles bearing their name and a corresponding place in the public eye. The group essentially evolved from the Skatalites after that band imploded following the murder conviction of trombonist and guiding force Don Drummond. Originally known as the Soul Vendors, they changed their name after returning from a UK tour, rechristening themselves after an echo unit Dodd had purchased in England. You can hear that very unit on the guitar, answering each upstroke on songs like \"Doctor Sappa Too\" with an offset response, an afterbeat after the afterbeat. Soul Jazz's tracklisting leaves out most of the band's bestknown tracks like \"Real Rock\", most of which are available on Heartbeat's Downbeat the Ruler compilation. Instead it mixes a few highprofile songs with a ton of cuts that had previously been available only in Jamaica. It's a funky disc, full of great, skanking rhythms and fine playing by some of Jamaica's most revered musicians, including Leroy Sibbles, Cedric Brooks, Jackie Mittoo (barely in his twenties at the time and already a seasoned vet), Ernest Ranglin, Rolando Alphonso, and Vin Gordon. The jazz upbringing and training of many of those musicians is apparent in the lyricism of the saxophone and trombone leads, while \"Love Land\" and \"Soul Shake\" nod to traditional Rastafarian music with the inclusion of burru handdrumming, similar in rhythmic style to the handdrumming of Senegal's mbalax music. Mittoo was one of the band's leaders, and his unique keyboard style is a major part of the music's appeal. Mittoo uses bright, unaffected organ tones, and his playing has a melodic meander to it that cuts nicely through the tight horn arrangements and frequently wah'dout guitars. The best songs tend to have the most fully fleshed arrangements, with thick horn sections and great leads, like the classics \"Heavy Beat\" and \"Full Up\". You might recognize \"Upsetters Dream\" as the backing track of Carlton & the Shoes' \"Love Me Forever\", but it sounds quite good on its own, with a beautifully understated wah guitar lead from Ernest Ranglin. A bit of early toasting shows up on a couple of later tracks, \"Holy Moses\" and \"Hail Don D\" (a reference to Drummond), but it adds little, as it hadn't developed to the point it would in dancehall and dub. There are a couple of songs that feel like they're missing something samples waiting to happen, essentially, and it's easy to see why these tracks are versioned so often, as the rhythms are all rock solid and the chord changes aren't too out of the ordinary, meaning you can go in a lot of different directions from the source. It's refreshing to see the Sound Dimension achieving recognition in their own right for their huge contribution to reggae. More to the point, though, it's clear from this release that they were more than just a backing band, and that the music they made stands well on its own, albeit usually with an overdub or two. Hearing this music in relation to the hits by Alton Ellis, Jon Holt, Dennis Brown, Bob Andy, Slim Smith, Don Evans, and others whose backbones these tracks formed is hugely entertaining as well, though you'll have to track down those songs on your own. If you're attached to those vocalists or Jamaican singing styles generally, then you may find this disc a little lacking, but if you're looking for a deeper understanding of reggae and where it came from, this will help you find it. "}