{"label":" 5RC","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7730/homepage_large.045259dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mia Lily Clarke","artist":"The Seconds","title":"Kratitude","text":" Although Brain Chase is better known for providing the muscular, no fills drumbeats that propel the shadowy pop of Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and guitarist Zachary Lehrhoff for the stingingly sweet melodies of noise duo ExModels, both insist that the Seconds is not simply a side project and both would like to devote more energy to it. Equally short on downtime, engineering student Jeannie Kwon joins the New York based group on bass and vocals, providing a deep kick to the astringent, urgent tones of the no wave trio's second full length, Kratitude. Chase's distinctive drumming style is often labeled as primitive, but he has considerable flair for weaving unpredictable rhythms on a simple kit and an intuitive relationship to the electric guitar. Short on fills and strong on the kick and tom, Chase works best with rhythm heavy guitarists, with whom he spars and interlocks with typically brutal, knotty grace. Like Chase's YYYs band mate Nick Zinner, Lehrhoff extends his guitar lines from the gluey pull of the drums while simultaneously communicating with the beat, which is far more effective than focusing on embellishment. The same can be said for the vocals, which the Seconds mine for phonetic, textural, and rhythmic qualities rather than the meaning or metaphor behind the lyric. On \"Dogsicle\", for example, Kwon and Lehrhoff repeat an indecipherable line that blurs together into a swirling, kinetic pattern and, with the force of a fierce whirlpool, is eventually pulled down into a cacophony of barked tantrums, lean beats, and sliced distortion. Largely conceived by Chase, and in keeping with his minimalist style, Kratitude was recorded on a 4track at his old practice space in Brooklyn. It's less catchy than 2001's \"Y\", yet more immediate and hyperactive. Melody and structure are like an afterthought in this brisk collection of violently impulsive, jutting punk rock songs; instead the Seconds head directly for the jugular of rhythm and repetition. On the album's opening track, \"Moving\", Kwon's dampened harmonic string textures burst into a raw flow of posthardcore that echoes L.A. noiseniks the Mae Shi or, as the marketing sticker on the jewel case accurately suggests, Throbbing Gristle. Though the Seconds lament the lack of time they can devote to fuelling their glorious racket, the sense of urgency that arises out this situation strongly contributes to the group's sound. It is reactionary and explorative and awkward. Not unconsidered, just direct and overflowing with sounds that itch and split, like hundreds of nails bouncing over sheets of broken glass. "}