{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7731/homepage_large.fe8ed2b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mia Lily Clarke","artist":"Shoplifting","title":"Body Stories","text":" Though there have been a few exceptions consistently excellent releases on Sub Pop, the Blood Brothers, Pretty Girls Make Graves Seattle has struggled to maintain its reputation as a hot bed of musical activity in the U.S. in recent years. Thankfully, with the rise of bands such as the ephemeral yet superb Chromatics, the city's music community began to reenergize particularly the political and radical DIY scene, which has evolved to embrace wider circles thanks to allages venues, active organization of protests such as Bands Against Bush, and a continual stream of exciting new groups. After Chromatics disbanded, three of their members drummer Hannah Blilie (also of the Gossip), bassist Michelle Nolan, and guitarist Devin Welch formed Shoplifting at the tail end of 2002. Once teamed up with vocalist/guitarist Chris Pugmire, the group committed itself to continuing its involvement and support of Seattle's punk rock community, as well as embarking on a slew of basement shows and tours alongside likeminded groups such as Erase Errata and King Cobra. As a live band, Shoplifting are a shattering, approachable, soulful, and energetic proposition, and these qualities make their debut full length, Body Stories, feel like a bolt of fiery and inspiring positivity. Shoplifting's exploration and communication of feminist, queer, and gender politics are processed via their expansive, abrasive songs, which kick and jostle like a young buck shaking dirt off its back. Bilile's drumming usually keeps things on the danceable side with driving tempos that recall the explosive punk of (the now sadly defunct) Black Eyes. Opening track \"M. Sally\" begins with a beautifully glittering guitar effect that weaves between Pugmire's tale of a woman perhaps a muse, perhaps a guardian named Mustang Sally, who protects him in times of need. Never ones to repeat a formula, Shoplifting blend tracks such as the upfront pop of \"Male Gynecology\" with instrumental semiimprovisations like \"Flying Factory\" a furious, rhythm heavy soundscape which sounds great thanks to renowned producer Steve Fisk, who captures the band's live energy with extraordinary sensitivity. Body Stories is an idiosyncratic and musically smart album. It actually sounds as though each member is pushing themselves as far as possible with their instruments and approach to composition, and the result is captivating. Although Pugmire takes on most of the vocal responsibilities, Bilile's singing on closing track \"Claude Glass\" is easily one of the record's highlights. Haunting and unusual, spilling over the prowling bass lines and discordant guitar, she weaves dark and uncertain images with fluctuating melodies and tones, before the song collapses into its bittersweet and sudden end. "}