{"label":" Winter & Winter","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/780/homepage_large.51015b6a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Jim Black","title":"Splay","text":" The guitars are so calm, and the watery sound effects beneath the surface, you might think this was a new age record for the first few seconds. And in some ways, you might be right. Whatever raging, insistent inspiration Jim Black carries with him while playing for other people seems to have been merely a color effect for his owr music. It's just not fair to pigeonhole Black as always being full of rage: his lighthanded, detailoriented playing and ability to make just about any kind of music interesting is one of his major talents. In fact, the dense calm at the heart of his compositions seems to indicate that resolution, not rage, is his ultimate goal. So, I think an introduction is in order: meet Jim Black, drummer and composer. Black was born in 1967 in Seattle. He'd grown up playing rock and jazz, and eventually attended the esteemed Berklee College of Music in Boston. Soon, he moved to New York City, and fell in with the budding downtown avantgarde jazz scene. His first claim to fame was playing in Tim Berne's legendary Bloodcount unit, where he was at least partially responsible for the band's rather intimidating aggression. Black also made the rounds with Dave Douglas, Ellery Eskelin, Satoko Fujii and Chris Speed. Jim Black plays like there has never been a concept of tomorrow: like an ultraprecise, junkcymbal and Aphexbeat loving hurricane. I read an interview ir an old drummer magazine once where Black was giving props to Stewart Copeland and John Bonham, and I guess those are good starters, but they don't really account for the whole lightspeed chaotic behindthebeateventhoughhe'sreallyrightonit thing he does. Furthermore, Copeland and Bonham weren't jazz drummers. To my ears, he's near the lineage of Tony Williams aggressive and idiosyncratic, but so nimble that you never get the feeling he's pushing too much.Splay is Black's second solo release, after last year's Alasnoaxis, with his band of the same name. The band ir question (Chris Speed on clarinet and tenor sax, Hilmar Jensson or guitar and Skuli Sverrisson on bass) is made of players very much ir Black's demographic. These are relatively young artists who are kneedeep in the highbrow pit of new jazz yet unlike John Zorn, don't have to play modern rock as a genre exercise. I'd say the music on this record has as much relevance in an indie discography (particularly one that features instrumental acts such as Tortoise, Chicago Underground Duo/Trio and Rovo) as it does a jazz one, at least on the surface. Tunes like \"Aloe Evra\" and \"Cheepa vs. Cheep\" could probably pass for a jazzy brand of Chicago postrock. The former begins lightly, with a backdrop of wet ambience and modest guitar figure until the drums crash in, at which point it becomes an odd combination of MBV distortion, but with relentlessly crashing cymbals and uptempo rock beat, and eerily contemplative chamber jazz. Speed's clarinet takes the melody, and his understated tone just barely manages to keep aloft amongst the guitars and cymbals. Despite the intensity (and density), the overarching mood is still of calm. \"Cheepa vs. Cheep\" starts with Jensson's heavily distorted guitar and kinetic polyrhythms from Black, while Speed's clarinet makes modest melodic statements. In the midsection breakdown the band first disintegrates into boisterous freeform cutups, only to completely disappear into a drone of pulsating acoustic guitar and pillowy synth. Sometimes the sound can get a bit too calm, especially during the ballads. \"iCratic,\" with Speed's straighttone melody and Jensson's Frisellesque watercolor comping, borders on the stationary despite Black's restless drumming. The tune doesn't really start to gain any momentum until about two minutes in, when it coincidentally ceases being a ballad and turns into brooding avantrock. Black tests listener patience with the epic \"Blissed (Selfchatter Mix)\" which, at twelve minutes, will undoubtedly filter out all the strict jazzbos ir the audience. It's basically a straight indie instrumental, for whatever that's worth, along the lines of very recent Fugazi or Sonic Youth reveling in those lowregister guitar chords and Black's everyman rock beat. If you havex92t had the pleasure of hearing Black play, I'd recommend starting with some of his records as a sideman (particularly with Ellery Eskelin or Tim Berne) before hitting Splay. It's not that this side of his music isn't just as compelling, but those performances were some of the best of the 90s, whereas his solo work is strangely attractive, but arguably not as inventive, or immediate for that matter. Nevertheless, a solid effort from one of the most interesting artists in contemporary jazz. "}