{"label":" spinART","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7738/homepage_large.e8366ee2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kevin Adickes","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Dean Quixote sdtk.","text":" As each day passes, it becomes more and more difficult to write a truly gratifying pop song. Part of the pop equation relies on a sense of spontaneity that has become increasingly elusive as listeners have now had, debatably, seventyfive years to construct an emotional immunity to the same unvarying formula. There are always those who will invert the standard for successful songwriting, leaving the accessibility to the less daring. Then there are those who acknowledge the inescapable grasp and scope of their musical heritage and imbue their own music with enough inventiveness to endure repeated discriminating listens. Unfortunately, many seemingly creative bands merely stumble upon whatever unique sonic deviations earmark their respective \"sound\" and, once they have it patented, infuse it with every damn Beatles/Chuck Berry regurgitation they write. So it should be said that while an original technique is an occasional indicator of true talent (i.e. Phil Elvrum and his affinity for right/left channel panning guitars) true judgment should be reserved for the frequency in which you actually listen to the artist's recorded output. This is the best way to delineate between talent and plain sticktuitiveness. So what do you do with all those outstanding songs mired in between albumfiller and the token ballad attempt? You make a mix tape. Orion Walker expresses his love of mix tapes in the liner notes of the soundtrack to his film, Dean Quixote. \"There's a lot of great music being made... but you'll never hear this music unless you look for it. Or unless you're lucky enough to have a friend that makes you a mix tape...\" Indeed, Orion Walker seems to be a man of sagelike advice and the psychedelic murmuring of his mix tape to us, his audience, only reinforces the notion that he's a thinking man's man and his taste is nigh impeccable. The album commences with the Olivia Tremor Control's \"Jumping Fences\" which, after nearly five years, still evokes the same paradoxical euphoric dystopia as it did on Dusk at Cubist Castle. There is no conceptual analysis of the modern pop song to be found, as on Black Foliage just Will Cullen Hart and Bill Doss stretching their comparative musical muscles and setting the ambience for the vast majority of the record. Elephant Six dignitary Robert Schneider seems to pop up randomly throughout the course of the album. His band, the Apples in Stereo, are well represented with the inclusion of \"What Happened Then\" from the hitandmiss Discovery of a World Inside the Moone, and his Orchestre Fantastique offer up the film's theme, \"Stars on the Sea.\" All said, Orchestre Fantastique sounds like incidental music for 70s educational programming, but within the context of the album, its breeziness is easily overlooked especially when compared to the Beachwood Sparks' \"This is What It Feels Like (Alt. Version).\" Both of these tracks, which would normally undergo a far more jaded critical knife, actually provide a fair definition for the album: a group of artists offering their winning interpretations of the \"archetypal pop song.\" The Minders turn out a piece that's not entirely dissimilar from what Nick Drake's instrumental \"Bryter Layter\" would sound like if interpreted as elevator music, and Spink (whose name should really be changed if they wish to gain an ounce of respect) cover the Palace Brothers' classic \"New Partner.\" Elsewhere, Songs: Ohia stay around just long enough to infect your blood with the catchyasallhell \"Hot Black Silk.\" Though it may be impossible for Jason Molina to escape the Will Oldham comparisons, he shows here that he has the range (musically and vocally) to transcend a few of those stylistic similarities. The remainder of the album is similarly engaging. Robert Pollard, who is supposedly close friends with Walker, appears in the film and donates the underrated gem \"If We Wait\" from the generous tensong Sunfish Holy Breakfast EP. And, like such revivalist luminaries as Goldfrapp and the Squirrel Nut Zippers in their more sultry moments, Crystal Keith and Kim Fox come to the radical conclusion that the seduction of lounge music didn't die in the 40s with their contribution, \"O What a Noble Mind Is Here Overthrown.\" I'm glad to say that I haven't seen Dean Quixote. Hearing these songs free of their intended context seems to have nourished the area of my brain that would have been deprived of stimulation had I watched this film at the local art house. So I'm taking the purist's route. The visualizations I've conjured up are more fantastic than anything that can be committed to celluloid. Life just can't be contained in 24framesasecond, and rather than have the film inspire the soundtrack, I've allowed the music to catalyze my generally dormant creativity. The only flaw in my plan: my expectations for the actual film have far exceeded the very constraints of cinema. This soundtrack has ruined it all for me. "}