{"label":" Hollywood","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7749/homepage_large.a76619e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Royal Tenenbaums sdtk","text":" I love Rushmore. You love Rushmore, too. Admit it. I'd wager my lunch money that 98% of regular Pitchfork readers see at least a little bit of themselves in the blue blazer and thick glasses of Max Fisher. We've all had hopeless crushes on teachers, been thrown out of prep schools, and written stage adaptations of Apocalypse Now. You know, figuratively like.Rushmore also appealed to me (and to you) as a rare example of the effective musical movie, where the songs and score perfectly complemented the action on screen. It's no small wonder, then, that the accompanying soundtrack was one of the best in recent memory, playing like a mixtape with selections hand picked by Fisher himself. British Invasion chestnuts from Creation and the Kinks reflected the angst and paranoia of the film's teenage protagonist, while Devo founder Mark Mothersbaugh's quirky score spoke for the slightly offkilter charm of the film. Unlike the thinly veiled label showcases masquerading as \"inspired by\" soundtracks for most of today's movies, the Rushmore soundtrack worked as both souvenir and autonomous album.Which brings us to The Royal Tenenbaums, the new flick from the team that brought you Rushmore, and its companion album. Again, you get a healthy helping of Mothersbaugh score, which largely finds him exploring much of the same territory of Rushmore (i.e. the limitless potential of a jazz quartet consisting of acoustic guitar, vibraphone, harpsichord and drums). And again, the score weaves in and out between a choice sampling of 60s and 70s rock, albeit this time from slightly bigger names: Dylan, Velvets, Ramones, etc.But like the disillusioned characters of its cinematic parent, Tenenbaums' songs deal with the more adult issues of loneliness and dissatisfaction. Rather than the sexual frustration swagger of garage rock, the film's bittersweet melancholy is represented by the plaintive acoustic singer/songwriter and the lush, orchestrated chamber pop set piece.These two threads are combined in the bookend tracks by dictionarydefinition chanteuse Nico. I'll admit to never really appreciating her contributions on the first Velvet Underground album; her female Bela Lugosi vocalizing always seemed like a particularly unfunny Andy Warhol joke. But \"These Days\" and \"The Fairest of the Seasons,\" with their delicate fingerpicking and tasteful strings, somehow fit her valiant struggles with the English language in a more earpleasing manner.The threads of Nico's ruminations on loneliness (what, didn't she bang Jim Morrison?) are picked up by the folky stylings of someone named Emitt Rhodes and everyone's favorite mope, Elliott Smith. Furthering the widely held theory that first names ending in \"tt\" lead to chronic depression, both are excellent examples of a genre I call \"showerrod swinging\" music, or just Kozelekmer for short. Smith's \"Needle in the Hay,\" especially lives up to the term, given the scene from the film in which it plays.But nothing says desolation like stringed instruments playing in a minor key, and both Nick Drake and the Yseye Quartet are happy to provide. The latter's performance of Ravel's \"String Quartet in F Major\" (a composition I'm sure we all know and appreciate, cough, cough) blends particularly well with the more expansive Mothersbaugh score contributions with its playful pizzicato and frenetic string bass.Surprisingly, it's the Mothersbaugh score that steals the spotlight on the entire album, providing a kind of modern classical music that walks the thin line between complete avantgarde unlistenability and Yanniism. The many unexpected twists and turns of the epic 7:18 \"Lindbergh Palace Hotel Suite\" (a sudden drop into reggae, an extended drum solo) make more sense in the film, but on disc serve as brilliantly absurd flourishes in the midst of a twinkling orchestral piece. \"Mothersbaugh's Canon\" and \"Sparkplug Minuet\" similarly showcase his growth as a film composer by incorporating a children's choir and flutes.Not all the song selection fits and abets the mood, however. The Clash's \"Police and Thieves\" and the Ramones' \"Judy Is a Punk\" are both great songs, undoubtedly, but stick out with their increased volume and attitude. Bob Dylan's \"Wigwam\" is from the heretofore unknown \"moaning along with a brass section\" phase of his career (1970, to be exact), and is rather unpleasant. Their inclusion is befuddling, considering the more thematically appropriate songs from the movie left off the soundtrack: Van Morrison's harpsichorddriven \"Everyone,\" or Mothersbaugh's merrygoround organ version of \"Hey Jude.\"While Rushmore captured the turmoil of youth, The Royal Tenenbaums soundtrack aims to portray more mature emotions than those of a hormonecrazed fifteenyearold boy, and mostly succeeds. But then again, you're over that crush on Miss Cross, too. "}