{"label":" Better Looking","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7754/homepage_large.98242648.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alison Fields","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Songs for Cassavettes sdtk","text":" Songs for Cassavetes is a documentary about indie rock, shot on 16mm blackandwhite film stock and featuring live show footage of bands largely from Washington, D.C. and/or Washington state. It likely features some live footage, arty, yet organic, camera work, and scenes of witty, articulate, attractively disheveled indie rockers selfconsciously mugging at the camera and talking about touring. I say likely because, well, I haven't seen it. The film is currently \"on tour,\" and may be coming to your town soon. It won't be coming to mine, though; I live in rural North Carolina. Thus, my options for catching the film are limited to my coughing up the price of a DVD (no thanks), or waiting for that friendly guy with the dog at Broadway Video to stock it. Am I disappointed? Not really. I mean, I nearly broke my neck trying to see the dismissable HalfCocked way back in the day, only to learn that Rodan can't act. No surprises. Also, I received (via first class mail), the soundtrack from Songs for Cassavetes, which does, in fact, feature fifteen or so primarily live tracks from bands like SleaterKinney, Dub Narcotic Sound System, and the MakeUp. Interspersed throughout are witty, articulate, selfconscious quips from people like Molly Neuman and Calvin Johnson about doing what you love and what happened to the underground in the 90s, which provide nice audio accompaniment to the blackandwhite still frames on the cover and the earnest quotations from filmmaker Justin Mitchell in the liners. (Example: \"What follows is the kind of moment one never forgets. You know, the kind that ends up defining a part of your life and that you end up always trying to recapture. For the next ten minutes, you're someplace. It's pretty close to bliss and you know everyone else in the room feels the same thing.\") There's no denying the good intentions. And fortunately, Songs for Cassavetes largely avoids falling victim to the typical fate of good intentions. This isn't a sinkorswim release. And I'd be willing to bet that if you buy this, you have a pretty good idea of what it'll sound like before you even get to the cash register. That, of course, may be a problem for a project dedicated to showcasing the innovation of the indie rock scene, there are few risks. I'm betting, for example, that even if you're not a fan, you've heard SleaterKinney's \"Words and Guitars,\" and I'll bet you have a pretty good idea of how that sounds live (raw, endearingly unskilled). Likewise, the live version of Unwound's \"Arboretum\" makes a compelling argument for just how tight Unwound is, but doesn't build much on the LP version. The live recording format is even less effective for bands like the MakeUp and Dub Narcotic, whose onstage success derives in part from the comparative performing charisma of their frontmen. The lesserknowns put up a good show. Further's \"I Am a Stranger\" is a great little garagey, retro pop gem whose psychedelic leanings foreshadow certain bandmembers' futures in the Beachwood Sparks. Likewise, Chisel's (featuring the once and future Ted Leo) \"Spectacles,\" which according to liner apocrypha, served as partial genesis for the entire project, has something of a Jawbox feel. I'm not so sure this soundtrack is strong enough to stand alone without knowledge of the film. The soundbytes from the interviews set a tone lots of DIY spirit and the John Cassavetes quotation that's attributed to \"Everyone\" provides some input as to the chosen title (I was darkly saddened to learn that it was not a collective answer to Le Tigre's \"What's Yr Take on Cassavetes?\"). But ultimately, all these bands have stronger material (excepting perhaps the HiFives, whose fizzy, ingratiating \"You Can\" is the clear winner for low point on this CD). Not a bad collection. But unsurprisingly: no surprises. "}