{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7765/homepage_large.30a61718.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Various Artists","title":"One Perfect Day","text":" Ravers had it too easy: In 15 infinitely demarcated years of house music, nothing as painfully reductive and asinine as Cameron Crowe's Singles ever crashed their party. Then came the onetwo punch of Go and Groove. Though hardly as embarrassing as Crowe's egomaniacal fantasy, these films quantified the thenwatereddown club scene for the masses, but unlike grunge, house music rolled with the attention, booked bigger halls, and kept on. The faceless interchangeability of dark corners, warehouses and surprisingly selfeffacing DJs made it possible for the whitelabel world to preserve its outsider status. Alternately touching and overwritten, the recently released Aussie indie film One Perfect Day uses club culture as the backdrop for an otherwise canned comingofage story. Making its name in large part on the back of its soundtrack, an expansive and fairly astute survey of superstars and cuttingedge club tracks, the film's faith in fouronthefloor brought Underworld, Paul Van Dyk, Laurent Garnier, and even Orbital to the table. Though agonizingly dragged down by interwoven pop tracks and some questionable Aussie talent cue Melbourne's Lydia Decker, who reminds us there's a whole slew of Evanesence horseshit coming down the pipe the compilation reminds us that if James Brown is dead, L.A. Style will live forever. The main reason house still works as an againsttype antihero is its singleminded persistence in the face of fluctuating popularity, which, after Madchester, peaked in the Trainspotting tailend of Britpop, crossing the pond intact. Predictably, mass audiences only caught on during the movement's direst creative slump, which was paralyzed by an influx of attentiondemanding cash from the clueless outside world, and endless trance rehashes from comelately flakes out to become DJ divas a la BT. Thousands of crap cocktailhouse compilations flooded the market, but the music's core audience never wavered. Since that mistranslated heyday, the mainstream has largely ignored house, in part because, for the media, the genre's generic late90s output defined it. Pop stars bemoan a lack of personality, glamour and gusto, while a linetowing legion of lookalike listeners write off potential dancefloor liberation with preprogrammed dismissals of, \"It all sounds the same,\" or increasingly in our garage band iLife world \"Anyone could do that.\" Eminem went so far as to say \"Nobody listens to techno.\" Someone send Marshall a copy of American Massive. Or better yet, play him Grafiti's \"What Is the Problem?\". Like Audio Bullys' \"We Don't Care\" (which is sorely missing from this collection, but admittedly too aligned with UK garagerap to work), Grafiti's genius hooligan anthem went the usual route last year: club banging curiosity > omnipresent weekend soundtrack > ringtone. Yet somehow, even with our lately unchecked BBC America fetish and the fact that it's so obviously Mike Skinner aka The Streets (who played this all wrong), \"What Is the Problem?\" only made it to the most Anglophilic stateside playlists. Which is not to suggest that One Perfect Day's soundtrack is in any way elitist, though the globetrotting film it scores is another matter. Like the story it services, this 33track set is overambitious, and misses out on what could have been a solid statement: Amid stylistic nonsequiturs and misguided local pride lies a marriage of vinylonly Puritanism and unashamedly commercial big beats. If only they'd isolated the dance tracks to one disc, they'd have accomplished this pluralist posit in glowing fashion. Instead, the misty 3 AM air of The Rairbirds' recent club favorite \"Blow Wind Blow\" which, with the help of Photek, spelled out everything U2 meant to accomplish with Passengers is cut down by Offcutts. Though Josh Abraham's remix of their \"Break It (Down James Brown)\" boasts pounding pop beats, it's probably too close to Smash Mouth or G Love for American ears, and, having been featured in Australian CocaCola adverts, has definitely worn out its welcome at home. Which is in one sense a shame this bordercover of The Archies' \"Sugar Sugar\" illustrates the power of punch the way only the slickest, overproduced raveups can but it's hard to figure who would be happy to find it following an untainted modern classic from the club. This deflating pattern of beatdriven buildup and radioready blowout is a crushing sequencing mistake. Nothing more clearly (and painfully) illustrates the dichotomy than the inclusion of Aussie glamrocker Mandy Kane, who, thankfully, most of us have never heard of, despite his selftouted deal with Warner Music. This pathetically transparent, soulless pile of shit follows the venerable Dust Brothers with an impotent Cubase cover of and I can't build this up enough Duran Duran's \"Ordinary World\". I would sooner revisit their version of \"911 Is a Joke\". Looking to court everyone rather than risk alienating mainstream listeners, the soundtrack betrays the film's romantic view of clubs and parties as oases where one can let go, rediscover trust and/or grow through new experiences. While there's a more sinister underbelly to such positivism (which the film deals with admirably), none of the commercially minded music included here has any memorable impact in the film, certainly not in comparison to Orbital's \"One Perfect Sunrise\" or Underworld's recent \"Two Months Off\", which lend a great deal of its character. Such is the power of soundtracks, and they deserve the same dramatic pacing as the story they told. Exactly half of these cuts are proper club tracks, so in the digital age, the obvious choice is to resequence them yourself. I did, and haven't yet cut the club disc short, which really says something for Radio Slave's mix of Elton John's \"Are You Ready for Love\", an honest tribute to early house that would work alongside VHS or Beta, Daft Punk or DFA's recent remixes. In overt contrast to this laudable redress is Robert Smith's putrid rerecording of the increasingly abused \"Pictures of You\", done with selfprofessed \"electronic music guru\" Paulmac, who shares Smith's affinity for sticking his face on his records. Another Aussie inclusion, Paulmac's VST plugins are as subtle and convincing as Smith's forced vocals, full of the overdone, cocksure croaking that's grounded his career. The one wonderful selection from beyond the strobe lights and sound systems is The Cardigans' \"Feathers and Down\", from their totally ignored 2003 LP Long Gone Before Daylight. Like the film, this soundtrack needed only one comedown cut for its sunrise drive home, and would have worked wonders as a single disc punctuated by The Cardigans' hazy, exhausted memories in the rearview. "}