{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7767/homepage_large.dec2fb78.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Garden State","text":" Garden State is a movie very suspicious of drugs, whether recreational or medicinal. Its protagonist, Andrew Largeman, has popped Prozac, Zoloft, and a whole smorgasbord of moodaltering and enhancing medicines for most of his life, all prescribed by his wellmeaning psychiatrist father. These drugs allow both men to overlook the central tragedy in their family the accident that left Andrew's mother paralyzed but as a consequence, Andrew is never able to experience the emotions that he comes to realize comprise an identity. When he takes ecstasy at a party, it only disconnects him further from himself and others. Scoring this trip is \"In the Waiting Line\" by Zero 7, which sounds exactly how Hollywood thinks a drug trip sounds: languid, midtempo beat; sampled sitar; vaguely psychedelic atmosphere; and what sounds like a bong hit during the bridge. As partygoers try to talk to Andrew and he begins to question his experience, Sophie Barker sings, \"Everyone's saying different things to me.../ Do you believe what you see?\" It's an overly obviously choice, as is much of this soundtrack. On one hand, these 13 tracks, all of which are available on other albums or compilations, seem genuinely to be music the characters would pick to soundtrack their lives. On the other, the songs all tend to comment too directly and too blatantly on their situations and motivations. For a movie that manages to locate subtle humor and pathos in its visuals (all those shots of Braff standing square in the center of the frame, as if looking into a mirror), Garden State lets the music do too much work. Coldplay's \"Don't Panic\", with its universal chorus (\"We live in a beautiful world\"), scores an early scene in which Andrew is driving to work amid all the maddening traffic of Los Angeles. This use is plainly ironic, but still work better here than it did in Igby Goes Down, where its earnestness was overkill. Nick Drake's \"One of These Things First\", however, speaks all too clearly to Andrew's identity problems: \"I could have been a sailor/ I could have been a cook/ A real live lover/ Could have been a book.\" And the film's final song, Frou Frou's \"Let Go\", buzzes trippily to its chorus, \"There's beauty in the breakdown,\" but its title and lyrics could have been written expressly for the movie's antidrug message. For Garden State, drugs are clearly not the key to a better life; Natalie Portman is. Barring that, try music. \"They'll change your life,\" Portman's character, Sam, remarks of The Shins as she passes Andrew a pair of headphones playing \"New Slang\". She's almost right. The Shins' two tracks on Garden State (including \"Caring Is Creepy\") are both recreational and medicinal: Drawing on 20 years of college, alternative, and indie rock, they are musically playful and subtle enough to be emotional Rorschach tests each listener will draw a slightly different shade of meaning from them. Similarly, the soundtrack's best songs are those that don't have such a direct connection to the story, that could have come randomly on the radio and just happen to fit the scene. Braff makes good use of tracks by Remy Zero, Thievery Corporation, and former Men at Work singer Colin Hay, whose song \"I Just Don't Think I'll Ever Get Over You\" is a surprisingly effective barroom lament. When Andrew and Samantha have their first kiss (after literally screaming into the abyss, another testament to the movie's lack of subtlety), Simon & Garfunkel's \"The Only Living Boy in New York\" blares out of nowhere. It could be a sly nod to The Graduate, to which Garden State has been compared, but the song communicates a few very particular ideas about loneliness and connection without ever overstating them. Later, Iron & Wine's cover of The Postal Service's \"Such Great Heights\" plays as the camera pans slowly up the length of a bed to show Andrew spooning postcoitally with Sam. Sam Beam slows down the tempo and substitutes only his guitar for Jimmy Tamborello's beats, in the process turning Ben Gibbard's whimsical, sometimes saccharine lyrics into softfocus images that unfold patiently and tenderly. Because its lyrics have little do with the action on the screen and its music supports the mood, Braff has created through character and image, \"Such Great Heights\" may be the most evocative song on the soundtrack refurbishing an upbeat song that sounds like a public declaration of love's exclusivity, this version sounds more like a whispered, consoling promise. Perhaps due to the movie's basis in Braff's New Jersey childhood, or to some kind of film debut jitters, Garden State the movie tends to overexplain its characters' motivations, as if they're not already apparent in the images and performances. The final 10 minutes, for example, could have been shot with no dialogue at all, and not only would the meaning have still come across, it might have even had more impact. Garden State the soundtrack similarly spells out its intentions all too clearly, leaving little to the viewer/listener's imagination. The songs may be memorable some of them may even change your life but as a soundtrack for a movie that barely needs any music to convey its message, they end up being something less than their sum. "}