{"label":" Sire / WEA","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7768/homepage_large.0725d0e8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Moore","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie","text":" As we walked idly through Midtown Manhattan this summer, my girlfriend and I came across a foamsuited SpongeBob posing for pictures with a small group of children. When the kids wandered off, we stepped up, thinking it might be fun to take a quick picture with the famously affable pineappledwelling milquetoast. He excitedly waved his hands, but as we moved toward him, a hulking teamster forcibly intervened, crossed his arms, and shook his head: \"We work for tips.\" I'll be the first to admit that I don't understand the SpongeBob phenomenon. In the early 90s, animators like John K, creator of \"Ren and Stimpy\", fled the toy commercial wasteland of network TV animation and found a niche on the fledgling Nickelodeon network, whose novel idea of airing creatorbased cartoons led to the successful first wave of the network's original animated programming. But as these cartoons evolved, so did their marketing practices the congenial \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" came with a prepackaged saturation plan. The metaphorical sweaty bodyguard of Nickelodeon promotion forcefully exerts its presence these days and does so in stark contrast to the show's uberamiable wholesomeness. However: Is SpongeBob truly a model of forgiveness and understanding, or just an adorable, inoffensive tool in Nickelodeon's merchandising arsenal? More importantly, how did Wilco, The Flaming Lips, The Shins, Ween, and Motörhead land on the soundtrack to the first \"SpongeBob\" film? Many of these artists have contributed to soundtracks in the past The Flaming Lips rode the success of \"She Don't Use Jelly\" all the way to Batman Forever, The Shins had a lifealtering role in this year's Garden State, and Ween have appeared, along with Pantera (!), on a previous \"SpongeBob\" soundtrack but here, their original material is geared toward young children. Presumably the artists contributed to the soundtrack because they enjoy the show, or at least want to score points with their kids, but their contributions many of which were recorded specifically for the film sadly sound halfhearted. Avril Lavigne's presence isn't a surprise (she's the only artist whose audience might overlap with show's), although her Gaprock take on the \"SpongeBob\" theme is pretty excruciating all 46 seconds of it. The Shins might be hoping to cast their net a few demographic points below the \"O.C.\" crowd, but their contribution, \"They'll Soon Discover\", comes off as selfparody. The song's cloying hook a lilting acoustic guitar pattern and synth melody is forgivable, but James Mercer's specific references to the show's characters are awkward and frustrating. His lyrics are too verbose to be deciphered by children, yet will also not likely sit well with older fans. Concessions to a younger audience are perhaps to be expected, but The Shins' uncomfortable middle ground here does no one any favors. The Flaming Lips and Wilco both offer mediocre originals as well. It's disappointing to hear the Lips' psychedelic inclinations reduced to a few grating synth lines, a weak Coyne melody, and an awkward backdrop of obtrusive bubble sound effects on \"SpongeBob and Patrick Confront the Psychic Wall of Energy\". Wilco's \"Just a Kid\", likewise, is a forgettable modish number backed by Jeff Tweedy's eight yearold son, Spencer, and his band The Blisters. Ween actually emerges as the Teflon contributor, in part by steering clear of the film's content altogether the previously released \"Ocean Man\" remains an enjoyable novelty. Most songs are irredeemably annoying, though, even for a children's soundtrack. Prince Paul sleepwalks through the pandering hiphop kiddie luau \"Bubble Party\", while Motörhead's \"You Better Swim\" is a bizarrely caricatured blooze number whose sheer inexplicability (Lemmy: \"C'mon, Spongey!\") at least makes the song interesting as a curio. Songs written specifically for the film are the biggest offenders the endless repetition of \"The Goofy Goober Song\" in particular should make bus drivers countrywide batshit crazy. Fans of this soundtrack's contributors couldn't be blamed for being compelled to pick this up for the new material, but unless you've kids of your own you want to impress, you might just want to skip the embarassment altogether. "}