{"label":" Hollywood","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7771/homepage_large.d40f606d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou OST","text":" When David Russell's I Heart Huckabees launched its ad campaign, the wackywistful commercials used what you could call \"Wes Anderson music\" 1960s/70s folk pop, light but not MOR, the kind of song that has a strong kick but soft edges. The music to films like Rushmore complimented a style that's drily bittersweet, and so quirky that his critics say he cushions his blows: the plot devices of giant aquariums and Jaguar sharks are too fantastic, real people don't live in the Franny & Zooey world of The Royal Tenenbaums, Gene Hackman never comes out and calls Danny Glover a \"nigger,\" and on and on. Meanwhile, the legion of Anderson's fans who dig the quirk also appreciate the understated but real sadness that runs through the films the genuine emotion that's fed by botched dreams and unexpected, unremarkable deaths. The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou has proven more exotic and divisive than even Tenenbaums check out the 47% fresh rating at Rottentomatoes.com and though I'm a diehard Anderson nut, I'm still digesting it, or to paraphrase the old saying, I had trouble seeing the ocean for the millions of brightlycolored, madeup fish. So fittingly, this may be Anderson's most jumbled soundtrack record. The Life Aquatic splits its time between excerpts from the score that are almost too cute, and old rock songs that sound even better than you remembered. The instrumentals take about a third of the album, and they come from both Anderson regular Mark Mothersbaugh and Sven Libaek, whose additions are jazzy and warmly fluid. Libaek's flute propels you more gently than Mothersbaugh's harpsichord, and while Mothersbaugh has the more distinctive style and the gorgeous \"Ned's Theme\" he also sounds like he's writing a score that could either be used by a bigbudget movie or by junior high school kids reenacting the same. Sure, that's the point, but it's stronger on the screen. Anderson's soundtracks are most popular for those 1960s and 70s pop songs, as with Rushmore's resurrection of the Creation's \"Making Time\". This time, along with cuts by Iggy and the Stooges, and Mothersbaugh's old band Devo, he uses two tunes from David Bowie's Hunky Dory, including \"Queen Bitch\" and \"Life on Mars\", the centerpiece of the whole soundtrack. As the strings on the chorus foam over like bubbles from a 50foottall washing machine, Bowie's voice cascades in sublime triumph though Anderson probably also picked this tune because of the line about the sailors. When he does retreat to a softer folk cushion, he picks curveballs like Joan Baez's \"Here's to You\" as a love theme, or the Zombies' \"The Way I Feel Inside\", which is so plainly pretty and understated that I couldn't predict how it would be used in the film. Then there's Scott Walker's \"30th Century Man\", a minuteandahalf of goldenthroated absurdity: \"See the dwarves and see the giants/ Which one would you choose to be?/ And if you can't get that together/ Here's the answer, here's the key.\" (Was this the inspiration for David Brent's songs on The Office? Wait wait guys, gimme back my critic's license I promise I'll never make fun of Scott Walker again.) You can decide for yourself if you want to pay the price of two movie tickets for new Mothersbaugh instrumentals and a handful of classics. But one thing sets The Life Aquatic apart from Anderson's last soundtracks: the five songs by Seu Jorge, who sings acoustic versions of Bowie songs in Portuguese. Jorge appears in the cast Americans may recognize him as Knockout Ned from City of God and these recordings basically come right from the set, as Jorge strums his guitar around the ship. You could treat these as a novelty, but my only complaint is that they didn't throw in more of them; Jorge's beautiful samba version of \"Rebel, Rebel\" and his vigorous \"Starman\" are the record's real highlights. Like Anderson's movies, they're strange, sweet, and revelatory.  "}