{"label":" Hollywood","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7773/homepage_large.04120d25.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Thumbsucker OST","text":" As summer turns to fall in the cinematic season, it has become traditional for studios to wheel out indie comingofage films. Since we've been around this block before, we know to expect certain things from the soundtracks of these films, be they focused on teenage crisis, quarterlife crisis, midlife crisis, or some combination of these infinite crises. Any compiler knows that a delicate mix of childlike whimsy and bittersweet melancholy is a must, not to mention a dustedoff, neglected oldie that summarizes the film's themes, and maybe a few covers, for good measure.Thumbsucker is clearly aware of these requirements, and given director Mike Mills' illustrious career in music video production, his rolodex should have been more than up to the challenge of filling out the OST. He started by courting Elliott Smith, who was originally pegged to provide all of the film's music. Smith's erratic work rate delayed the proceedings, and his death halted them, forcing Mills to draft in the Polyphonic Spree, perhaps thinking he could at least save the money it would've cost to hire an orchestra. To their credit, Tim DeLaughter's robed crew are adept at the whimsy part of the recipe stated above, as anyone who's heard their relentlessly optimistic brand of suncult music can attest. Though the format doesn't allow the Spree to indulge their usual slowbuild dynamics, the band nevertheless finds the space to use all of their many parts, handing most of the vocals to their choir and letting the strings, horns, etc. flit around the borders. But with rarely more than a minute or so to unfurl, the songs lack heft, sounding a little like jingles for correspondence art schools and newage massage centers. However, as far as the Spree doing the melancholy part: Eh, not so much. Attempts at gravitas sound overly forced and unnatural for the band, with DeLaughter putting on his best Ben Gibbard impression for \"Sourness Makes It Right\" and the choral smiles being poorly hidden on \"Wait and See\". Fortunately, Mills was able to salvage three demoish songs done by Smith, tremulous takes on Big Star's \"Thirteen\", Cat Stevens' \"Trouble\", and his own \"Let's Get Lost\". \"Thirteen\" is clearly the best of these, reverently remade as it is, Smith adding another sedimental layer of sadness to undercut Alex Chilton's alreadylonging adolescent reminiscences. But as accompaniment to a movie about a troubled teenager and his relationships, it's not the most subtle of soundtracking gestures. Lack of subtlety is something that plagues the entire score, not surprising given the rainbow sledgehammer tactics of the Polyphonic Spree. In the end, this lack of grace is what keeps Thumbsucker's OST from joining the ranks of excellent indie soundtracks alongside The Virgin Suicides, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and anything Mark Mothersbaugh has done for Wes Anderson. The Polyphonic Spree, despite attempts to pare down their sound and numbers when appropriate, can't help but be too intrusive for cinematic usage, inserting themselves into scenes like that episode from \"Scrubs\", rather than providing constructive background color.  "}