{"label":" Fact","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7788/homepage_large.a7f6cfd9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Taa-Pet","title":"TaaPetSounds","text":" Don't try to deny it. I saw you do the doubletake: Pitchfork finally decided to revisit the Pet Sounds review! But such is not the case. TaaPet means \"wallpaper\" in Hebrew, and while this disc isn't quite Baroque or Rococo, that's a closer reference point than pocket symphonies and California girls. Press play and hesitant cadences rise, mysterious ringing tones that slowly shift in pitch. Bass modulations begin to supplement the nearsilence, shuddering like the purr of an electric generator. This is ambient music, of a sort. TaaPet is Aviad Albert and Binya Reches. The duo have been on the Israeli music scene for years. Reches was a founding member of industrial rock force Die Welt (no doubt named in part for the German paper). Albert worked for years as a music journalist and as an employee for Kasbah Records, representing foreign labels like Warp and Ninja Tune locally. The TaaPet project began as an exploration beyond the foreground of music into what might be considered the background. They've found an obliging label in Fact, an offshoot of Jerusalem's Balance record store which serves as a clearing house for all kinds of experimental music from Israel.TaaPetSounds was composed live on computer with MIDI sequencing and sampling; it's a test of minimalism in a pristine digital environment. The threetrack \"Cold Sweet Potato\" announces itself with only a sine wave. There's something about its indelible arc that sounds so pure, maybe because it's representing itself: the soundwave as a wave of sound. It's simple and easy to picture, yet also elusive by nature, always sounding like it's radiating from somewhere besides the speaker. Faint crackling particles start to flicker at the periphery, distracting your attention from the eerie whine. Even as hovering helicopter whirs invade, it's hard to shake the clinical atmosphere. If you're listening with headphones, you might start to wonder whether this really is just another soundtrack for PoMo art galleries. But then a twonote bass drone descends, casting the rest of the elements into contrast. It's as if all the little noises before were just glares of light rippling on a vast sea, and then the moon was suddenly obscured so you could see into the depths. These elements cycle slowly, forming their own waves of overlapping tension, echoing in more extended sequences each time, gradually creating a sense of spatiality. But TaaPetSounds is more than just a Reichian experiment in delay. Reches and Albert leave clues that remind you of their improvisational skill, like the random birdsquawk synths on \"Do the Wrong Thing,\" and the mournful guitar reverb on the following \"Prahey.\" Throughout these seven tracks and 45 minutes a patient narrative develops, though at first it always seems nothing but noise. When knobtwiddlers are disparaged, it's usually because their manipulations are seen as facile; but the Etch of time and the Sketch of space are a powerful axis, and when your stylus inks with the most basic tones in the electronic palette, less often turns out to be more. \"Anti Virus\" is as evocative as ambient gets, full of braintingling sine squiggles and massed ethereal keyboards. Remember the old Nintendo game \"Metroid\"? When Samus Aran paused to rest, these are the sounds she heard in the caverns. "}