{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7795/homepage_large.7796ba03.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Nobukazu Takemura","title":"Sign EP","text":" It feels strange reviewing this EP now, since I bought it on vinyl roughly a year ago. At that time, I thought it was the prerelease teaser for Hoshi No Koe, featuring the catchy single \"Sign,\" along with an a capella version (not available on the CD release), another new track, and a lengthy collaboration with some postrock guys from Chicago. But the CD release of the EP got pushed back, presumably so that the bonus CDROM, an animated video of \"Sign\" by cover artist Katsura Moshino, could be completed. To make the CD more enticing, Thrill Jockey has also added \"Meteor,\" a single taken from the now deleted 12\" that was Takemura's Thrill Jockey debut (still worth hunting down for the stunning bside \"Wax and Wane\"). Those who knew Takemura only through his deadly serious (and often brilliant) Scope album were probably shocked by the inclusion of the playful, cotton candyflavored \"Sign\" on Hoshi No Koe. Here was a single heavily indebted to the World of Nintendo, with a fragile robot singing lead on an actual tune, complete with verses, a chorus, and even a bridge. The deliberately clumsy electrobeat rhythms are augmented by tinny Casio chords and a riff from you guessed it a skipping CD. This final touch has probably reached its sellby date at this point, but it does at least sound new in this context, that of sunny tweepop. I like it quite a bit. Those only familiar with Scope may have been shocked by \"Sign,\" but \"Meteor\" is the piece that first showcased this side of Takemura's personality. Though it serves as the prequel to \"Sign,\" \"Meteor\" is in some respects the greater achievement, and ranks among the finest tracks in the Takemura oeuvre. It starts with a cloud of clicks and slides before bringing in the trademark offkilter beats around the oneminute mark. Bit by bit, other elements are introduced some blocky electronic percussion, organ chords that can't quite hold it together, a random assortment of beeps and honks, and eventually, a disjointed ska rhythm. As the individual pieces fall in, they never quite seem to mesh, instead seeming to hover and vibrate in place, remaining interesting, but separate and unrelated. And then, about three minutes into \"Meteor,\" everything starts to gel as the piece increases in volume, and it finally comes together in a brilliant crescendo. \"Meteor\" is like a musical jigsaw puzzle, and when the pieces finally slide into place, it's exhilarating and supremely satisfying. Unfortunately, \"Meteor\" keeps going for 5\\xBD minutes after that mighty peak, spreading the considerable charms of the track a bit thin. For all his talents, Takemura is not the greatest editor, a trait also demonstrated here on the 35minute collaboration with Casey Rice, Bundy K. Brown, Doug McCombs and John McEntire called \"Souvenir in Chicago.\" I like sections of this piece. The first third has an impressionistic quality that I feel is missing from the recent Tortoise I've heard, seeming to drift by on a cloud of guitar feedback, terse bass melodies, and Takemura's rich synth chords and processing. About halfway in, the other players drop out and Takemura indulges his penchant for dense abstraction. Again, sections here are interesting enough, but it's difficult to tell what relationship, if any, these shapeless sounds have to the opening section of the piece. Eventually, his processing seems to reference bits of sound generated by the other players and the interest level again rises, but overall, this track is just too long and impenetrable. \"Cogwheel\" is another interesting builder in the vein of Hoshi No Koe's \"Anemometer,\" but the lighter tone allows it to blend easily with the other singles (at nine minutes, it's still too long, though). The bonus video is nice, pretty much capturing exactly what you'd expect the world of \"Sign\" to look like, with the flatness of the early Nintendo landscape and a story out of a video game, but with brilliantly rendered characters. But I don't really understand these bonus CDROM things I guess some people sit in front of their computers and watch them or something. Overall, \"Sign\" is another interesting release for devoted Takemura fans, but not a good introduction for the curious. Still, it'll do while I pine for the next fulllength. "}