{"label":" My Pal God","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7800/homepage_large.2caeac6d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Taking Pictures","title":"Friends Are Ghosts","text":" A select few bands tend to inform the majority of what goes on in indie rock at any given time. While the Trail of Dead's Source Tags & Codes had us hoping infinite examinations of Sonic Youth would dot our summer skies, new and nowave poses, for the most part, kept their stranglehold, as record labels could ensure a modest return on their fashionable investment. But labels like Dischord, the late DeSoto, and to a lesser extent, Princeton, NJ's My Pal God have with a few exceptions stayed the course plotted in the Fugaziinfluenced, postSlint mid90s, keeping an ear open for the next Chavez, or a reconstituted Rodan. My Pal God may have sewn up this game, as Taking Pictures features most of Hurl, a Pittsburgh band who peaked around 1997, but whose popular claim to fame is probably that second stage gig at their local 1993 Lollapalooza. Few bands as talented and relevant as Hurl have been as completely ignored by the underground, but they didn't tour much, and being from the same city as Don Caballero didn't help their often markedly similar cause. Back in the textonly .edu days of the Indie List, Hurl appeared on bills that send shivers down any aficionado's spine, including a house show with Pitchblende, Rodan, and Codeine in My Pal God owner Jon Solomon's living room. Though Solomon's tireless decade of dedication has amassed a catalog heavy on alsorans like Knodel and Paul Newman, a handful of great bands like Hurl lurked beneath higherprofile, lesserquality label mates. A technical powerhouse beset by that traditionally staggered indie release schedule, threefourths of Hurl have picked up where they left off on their brief finale, We Are Quiet in This Room.Friends Are Ghosts evokes the first wave of indie rock acts to benefit from the Internet, especially Edsel, a lastlegs DC band whose Everlasting Belt Co. is an absolute gem amid an otherwise disposable discography. Taking Pictures have the same suburban satisfaction to their sound, but it's driven by a precision and craftiness more in line with celebrated heavyweights like Jawbox, Seam, and (aside from the drumming) Versus: the signature guitar twang and throaty monotone vocals from The Stars Are Insane show up on more than a few of these songs. \"Words Sound Like Drums\", in truth, sounds like a more complex rendition of \"Thera\". Though the opening Minutemen/Codeine fusion of \"Hibernation for a HyperNation\" is enough to entice any shabbily dressed recordbuyer, Friends Are Ghosts doesn't frontload itself: it's the record's penultimate track, \"Eighteen Questions\", that steals the show. It's altogether brief, and merged with a forgettable Braid tribute \"That Fight We Should Have Had We Never Had\" but \"Eighteen Questions\" sums up postcollegiate confusion and loss in a devastating, uncaring salvo to the thousands of dejected survivors, drunkenly bemoaning their failed bands: \"What's your new project called?\" Colorcoded uniforms and skinny ties have their place in pop. Dressing up is fun kids need impossible idols, and it doesn't preclude making great music. But the more direct, faceless lineage of those disparate, independent DC acts was about impression more than imagery. Lately, bands are light on the former because fashion is in vogue, and really, it should be: indie rock has been too serious for too long. The problem with a shifting focus is what's obscured in transition, and it'd be a crime if that victimized Taking Pictures in the same way their proximity to The Octopus imprisoned Hurl. "}