{"label":" Sonic Unyon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7810/homepage_large.1b807ee7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt Stephens","artist":"Tangiers","title":"Hot New Spirits","text":" For a scene that's so openly condemned and reviled by critics, this \"garage rock revival\" has sure produced some damn fine records. You can dwell all you like on the middling Datsuns or the hopelessly plagiaristic Vines, but when push comes to shove it's hard to ignore the strippeddown superhooks of The Strokes, The White Stripes or... okay, so that's pretty much it for inspiring garagerock. Nevertheless! While never particularly revelatory or original, the best of it has consisted of tight, punchy pop songs that take up permanent residence in your cerebral cortex. Even if you haven't listened to \"Fell in Love with a Girl\" in over a year, you probably still remember the melody. Toronto's Tangiers may, at first glance, represent an archetypal, derivative garage band. They've got most of the particulars in the bag; the tousled hairdos, the thriftstore suits, the cigarettes and alcohol. But throughout most of Hot New Spirits they both wisely and endearingly set themselves apart from the flock, twisting the garage formula to give it a new, refreshing looseness and dynamic without sacrificing the immediacy that the style thrives on. Incorporating a Stonesy rawness and a violently jangly twoguitar attack into the standard lofi muddle, the band ends up sounding... well, a lot like the Buzzcocks, really. I'm sorry! I realize every single garagerock record review to date has referenced any one of countless punk and/or pop bands of the past, but look, we might as well face right now that no garage band of the 21st Century has yet really come up with their own distinct sound. Tangiers aren't breaking the mold or anything. And while I'm at it, I might as well say they aren't a direct clone of Shelley/Devoto frontman Josh Reichmann's vocals aren't nearly as nasal, and the band is certainly less highstrung and unquestionably (North) American. The influence, however, remains undeniable. And ain't nothing wrong with that. At least, not when the outcome is this solid. One thing that really makes this record that is, aside from the outandout stunning pop songs is the sincerity. These guys don't have the production value, fashion sense or, if we're judging by the artwork, desire to strike commercial gold. In fact, they lack every extraneous element that makes an MTVfriendly garagerock band: there's no bratty attitude, no sneering vocals, and sorry, gents no \"cute one\". The focus here, absolute frontandcenter, is always the song itself. The livid, stormy \"Here Come the Pieces\", the claustrophobic Dollsstyle jam \"Anxiety\", and the almost anthemic \"Ca Va Cool\" are all concise, stirring sendups that demonstrate the group's dazzling gift for melody and dynamics, each finding a subtle climax that demands repeat listens. Even when the writing isn't quite up to their usual standards which, I must say, is strikingly rare Tangiers' bugeyed delivery and energetic Red Bull overdrive make the songs a welcome listen. Americas, here is your garagerock underdog. "}