{"label":" Häpna","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7813/homepage_large.c3f12b4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Tape","title":"Opera","text":" In honor of Henry Miller and his devout love of watercolors, I've decided to augment my musicwriting artistry by taking up softlead pencils and doing artistic renderings of all my favorite albums. I started off with some white sleeve promos and gradually worked my way through The Beatles and TNT. I'm cramping a little bit on Rudimentary Peni's Death Church and Terry Riley's Poppy Nogood and the Phantom Band All Night Flight, but the icepacks are doing wonders. At the last International Starving Artist's Swap Meet at Joe Freeman Coliseum, I started trading with the Berthling brothers, Johan and Andreas, and their Swedish buddy, Tomas Hallonsten. The three called themselves Tape and wrote out the title of their latest creation as Opera, the graphite tactile on an exquisitely textured paper. They do a mighty nice rendition of the pastoral plucking and countercurrent circuitry of Faust's IV, I must say, in addition to the charcoal cubism of Gastr del Sol's Camofleur, done without any sort of preciousness that can hang over such electronic and acoustic rubbings. \"Bell Mountain\" opens with chiming guitar strings and a processed gurgle echoing from deep inside the wood, an elegant contrast between the two aforementioned albums. \"Return to Ship\" traces the beautiful figures of Five Leaves Left, with warm feedback drifting through those Drakedraped branches like an arctic sun. When the harmonica comes in, the weird objects drawn on the front cover including curiously curled leaves, stones, and plant life recall the world tree on Talk Talk's Laughing Stock in their more amorphous states of sound, before the voice of Mark Hollis would enter. \"Longitude\" drifts in and out of percolating rainfall, breathing harmonium breezes, and metallophones, perfectly matching yet another gray, washedout, stillnotsummer weekend outside. What's perhaps their most aweinspiring cover adaptation is that they capture the family vacation photo processing of Fennesz's Endless Summer. With an instrumental list that includes guitar, harmonium, laptop, field recordings, zither, piano, flute, glockenspiel, accordion, trumpet, and styrofoam, to name but a few, they move between the two extremes of unadulterated sound and sound processing. Tracks like \"Feeler\" and \"Radiolaria\" will be familiar to anyone already enamored with \"Caecilia\" or \"Shisheido\". While the guitar ambles along, moving in a drawnout fashion that can be a little bit too extended, little sound events puff and gust around it, sometimes sympathetic and subdued, other times randomly contrasting with the melodic figures and standing out, the colors of all the various instruments vibrant even when mixed together. Culling such deeply nuanced and singular sounds as the quoted covers above, Tape, while evoking brief instances of recollected sounds, manage to carve out a distinct, albeit more mild space of their own, drawing forth the most distinct elements and reworking it as their specific, spacious sound. "}