{"label":" Häpna","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7815/homepage_large.c54d573d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tape","title":"Rideau","text":" Broadly speaking, Swedish trio Tape are a throwback to the moredeliberate end of late90s postrock. A number of elements line upjust so: the Reichinspired use of repetition, the blurring oftraditional instruments and computer processing; a reflexive drifttoward the \"cinematic\"; an occasional willingness to let songs stretchon longer than someone who grew up listening to punk would imaginenecessary. For their third album, Rideau, Tape even enlisted productiorhelp from Marcus Schmickler, whose first two onemanband records asPluramon fit snuggly next to Tortoise on an arrangedbymood CD shelf.I still return to certain records from this world (including some byTortoise and Pluramon), but considering how much blah music the scenegenerated, the immediate associations surrounding Tape fail toinspire. It's an obstacle worth getting past, though, because Tape aredoing a lot of things right, and their music is far more engaging tharyou would guess by flipping through a catalog description. Rideau isflatout pretty, which helps a lot, and Tape has a consistently\"on\" compositional sense that builds tension and moves pieceslogically along. A good thing, too, since this record contains theirlongest tracks to date, three of which are more than 11 minutes.All virtues are present in opener \"Sunrefrain\", where graduallyunfolding bass, organ, and guitar meander up a mountain pass thatleads to a majestic surge of horns at the peak, a hairraising refrairthat sounds something like the fanfare from Jóhann Jóhannsson'sVirðulegu forsetar. It's the kind of track that rewards patience withan epic payoff. Good will duly established, thevibes come out on \"A Spire\", as Tape follow a brief snatch of melodyas far as it wants to go (which turns out to be the 11:45 mark).Schmickler's role here is key, as he carefully folds in variationsthat remain at the threshold of audibility from bar to bar but accruepretty serious force over longer stretches. He's also got an ear forsubtle but effective processing, cloaking familiar instruments irdistortion to create a sense of dislocation that adds depth to theproject.It's a good match that leads to Tape's best music. The two previousrecords are enjoyable, no question, but the drama here trumpseverything else in the catalog. Despite its seemingly demanding tracklengths, Rideau is the Tape album to start with. "}