{"label":" Hush","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/788/homepage_large.6c597237.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Blanket Music","title":"Cultural Norms","text":" Blanket Music has always sounded \"nice\"; that's even the title of their first album. But as founder/frontman/Hush label boss Chad Crouch declares, he's sick of being \"nice.\" Their earlier records subscribed to lush bossa nova and soothing, acoustic indie rock, cushioning lyrics that, while smart and witty, never had a victim, and never broke the peace. Blanket Music was nice, and Crouch has decided that doesn't play in today's world. Crouch opens with both barrels in \"You Shouldn't Have Said That\", where he threatens a rock critic over a bad review. (Chad, point taken but John Zorn's \"Perfume of a Critic's Burning Flesh\" is, y'know, a catchier track.) But after that, Blanket Music's third studio album, Cultural Norms, takes subtler aim at today's \"cultural norms\", from the everyday (fat kids, filesharing, Grand Theft Auto) to the newsworthy: a gay bride or groom waiting to be married by Gavin Newsom, a soldier's eye view of Bush's Thanksgiving press op in Iraq. Although the lyrics are heavier this time, the music is even catchier than Move, from \"I'm Fat,\" where the hook swirls from a Swiss chocolateflavored accordion, to the Rhodes and horns on \"Guernica\". Building on sweet and simple indie pop in the vein of Belle and Sebastian, Crouch doesn't let a song go by without a great tune and swinging arrangement, aided by members of the Portland indie syndicate including the Decemberists' Chris Funk and Jenny Conlee, Reclinerland's Michael Johnson on Fender Rhodes, and best of all, the rhythm section of bassist Dave Depper and Greg Lind on drums, who bring muscle and class to Crouch's breezy strumming. But if Crouch is sick of \"nice,\" that doesn't mean he's become nasty and his best weapon is his frailest: his voice, a thin reed that sounds ragged and vulnerable to the elements. While his vocal style fits the band, his best moments come when he sings a capella, cooly drawing you in by singing in a vacuum. Most of the lyrics take the form of a monologue, and while they're sometimes too literal or limited by their topicality, they catch the confusion and doubts of the characters, who never decide if what they're seeing is wrong. When Crouch is handling topics as serious as war or as banal as wageslavery, that tact is crucial: He never hits you over the head with an idea, and what better way to bemoan, say, the trivialization of \"Guernica\", Picasso's major statement against facism, than in a song so breezy that you can dance to it a dozen times without ever hearing the lyrics? Crouch understands the difference between getting in people's faces, and inviting them to come to him. This style of indie pop often takes the latter route, making it easy to overlook but that much more seductive. Maybe Crouch feels that in his nicer, earlier days he didn't work hard enough for the limelight, but he easily could have erred in the other direction by pitching headlong into the cultural wars. Instead, he found a perfect balance, and this is his most compelling album. "}