{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7818/homepage_large.a6e6b2c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tarentel","title":"Ephemera","text":" It's not every day you run across a singles collection that contains only five songs and stretches them out to almost 70 minutes. But San Francisco five piece Tarentel, whatever their other virtues, have mastered the difficult practice of patience. Like Labradford, they know that getting there is half the, well... I guess \"fun\" is probably the wrong word. Let's just say that the journey is its own reward. These songs take their time. The first thing you'll notice if you come to Tarentel through last year's album The Order of Things (like I do) is that these tracks are comparatively skeletal. No orchestral flourishes, vocals or scratchy field recording samples here. Ephemera is basically guitar, bass, drums and a little keyboard, with heavy emphasis on the guitar. Somewhere after the time of Spiderland, indie musicians the world over fell completely in love with the sound of a plucked electric patched into a nice amp, and decided that this simple sound, slowly moving through the notes of a chord, one by one, was enough to serve as the focal point for a 10+ minute piece of music. This attitude made songs like this record's opener, \"The Waltz\", possible. The first seven minutes or so are little more than the guitarist walking through the chords, slowly and steadily. Of course, then Tarentel has the good sense to add some grumbling organ chords and then finally a distorted blast of guitar noise about 12 minutes in, nicely releasing the tension of the lengthy build. The peaks and valleys of \"Looking for Things\" are much more subtle, reminding me a lot of Mogwai circa Come On Die Young (which equals \"boring\" for me, sorry). My favorite two tracks are the shortest. Both parts of \"Two Sides of Myself\" come from a seveninch single, and run a little over six minutes each. The seriously bent guitar notes on the first part remind me a lot of Pink Floyd's soundtrack work. There's an \"Age of Aquarius\", European hippie vibe that lends an aura of mystery, which the cymbal washes make even more explicit. Part two begins with ripples of some very controlled and quiet feedback and then spreads out from there. This is Tarentel in pure drone mode, close to the bliss world of Windy & Carl. The closer is the 24minute \"Searching for Things\" (are these the same things that were ordered for last year's album?), an odd choice for a single by any measure, which impressively glides slowly from one section the next, folding in all kinds of ominous guitar noises as it grows ever more moody and dark. I won't say it never gets a little dull, but I've heard worse sidelength tracks. As for the collection as a whole, nice stuff, but I have a hard time being drawn completely into this world. There's something a bit vague and uncertain about the tracks that deadens their emotional impact, despite how nice they sound. "}