{"label":" Chicks on Speed","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/791/homepage_large.5e04ae18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By JT Ramsay","artist":"Kevin Blechdom","title":"Bitches Without Britches","text":" Kevin Blechdom has put her days of cafeteria gossip and cheerleader tyranny behind her, and fled east to Berliniamsburg. Having morphed from a diminutive pupa into a fullgrown, sexpositive gadfly since her first recordings with Blectum from Blechdom, she's now spreading her wings (and legs) and confidently striking out on her own. Her identity carves itself: Bitches Without Britches sounds like the creation of an bipolar NYU freshman who, frustrated by the rigidity of her classmates' buttoneddown conformity, watched full seasons of The Simple Life and Rich Girls for inspiration, revolted against her parents, popular culture and democracy, and is now living out her Dr. Jekyll/Ms. Hyde fantasy at subway stops and bodegas between Lorimer and Canarsie. The tradeoff is that in place of the Pretty Girl Conspiracy Academy now stands the Electroclash Fashionista Cadre. Sure, this album reeks of the elitism it putatively refutes. Once it gets past its saccharine absurdity, the electrotorch song \"Use Your Heart as a Telephone\" would sound equally at home at Marie's Crisis as it does at Luxx. One dystopian industrial lovesong later, Blechdom deconstructs the consumerist/hygiene nexus, each new product or surgery relieving the user/recipient of certain duties and concerns, and further complicating the crux of the postmodern condition (\"Binaca\"). The frenetic abuse of presets and Reds makes each song sound like a botched overdose, a suicide incurring unconsciousness without fatality. \"I Am Nastay\" sounds like an intellectually honest take on Kylie Minogue, and it's imaginable that one could sync the \"Can't Get You Out of My Head\" video with this song. Elsewhere, the exhibitionist \"BoobBQ\" sounds like a Pasolini orgy complete with \"dickrowaves\" for his pleasure. Still, this all brings us back to the broader question of whether electroclash really accomplishes all it could. The genre's shameless indulgence in excess and shopping not only reinforces the sectarianism of pop culture that it should be subverting, but relies on it, making the music's absurdist, hypersexualized drama a novelty. In that spirit, Bitches Without Britches won't convert any nonbelievers, but the choir will gleefully singing its praises anyway. Regardless, the record is extraordinarily danceable and worth a number of good laughs, if not as many listens. But be forewarned: In 20 years' time, you'll be persuaded to pick up revivalist comps of this kind of stuff and love it. Don't wait for the boxset! "}