{"label":" eMusic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7865/homepage_large.1d0627be.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Spencer Owen","artist":"They Might Be Giants","title":"Working Undercover for the Man EP","text":" Right now, John Flansburgh and John Linnell are at their most prolific in years. They're recording incidental and theme music for hit TV shows like \"Malcolm in the Middle\" and \"The Daily Show.\" Their current single is the extended theme song from the former, titled \"Boss of Me.\" They have two fulllength albums in the works. They're once again running their DialaSong service from their answering machine at home (7183876962, still \"free when you call from work\"). And they're setting up a service with EMusic in which, for a monthly fee, John Q. Tmbgfan gets all sorts of Internet music exclusives. But the kids, they want a new They Might Be Giants CD. Sure, the duo released a fulllength in '99, but only on MP3! \"Enough with the MP3s,\" fans shout. They can't afford those newfangled portable MP3 players. They want to listen to their precious geekrock anywhere they please. And so, the cries rung out in the ears of the two Johns, and they found a solution. Flansburgh and Linnell went into the studio for a week, and another week later, they had their new hard product: the Working Undercover for the Man EP. It's still on EMusic, and still released through MP3 distribution; however, the first few thousand customers also receive a copy on CD, artwork and all. A bit gimmicky, and quite frankly, cheap. But hey, it's effective, I guess. It's pretty obvious that Working Undercover for the Man was completed in a brief window of time. In fact, it almost feels like a nod to the old days, in which their songs were so perfectly concise that they could fit 20 on a 45minute record while maintaining cohesion. There's even a drummachineandsynth track. But the sad fact is, they moved on long ago. Their last two fulllengths were recorded with a live group, and this EP is not exception: an array of Dans (think they did that on purpose?) handle second guitar, bass and drums. It's not truly a bad thing, since the Dans are talented, tight and versatile musicians. But many fans still long for the mid'80s, when They Might Be Giants were backed only by preprogrammed MIDI instrumentation. Linnell's material seems substantially more fleshed out than Flansburgh's on this effort. We begin with \"Rest Awhile,\" a quick, Linnellpennedandsung powerpop tune with mellotronish keyboards and bouncy guitar providing the perfect ironic uptempo beat to Linnell's traditionally morbid lyrics. It's followed by a new version of the DialaSong staple and title track, featuring a horn section, drum machine and synth, and a singsongy chorus to accompany Flansburgh's wry tale of a government agent posing as a rock star. The lyrics are amusing, but the melody is generally forgettable, especially after following such an excellent leadoff rocker. \"I Am a Human Head\" serves as the record's longest track, a true epic at just under 3 minutes. It's easily the highlight of the EP, pairing the classic Linnell flair for melody with the band's nonsensical careerlong fascination with the cranium. \"Empty Bottle Collector\" is, on the other hand, utterly disposable; culled from the \"Malcolm\" incidental music files, it's basically an improvisation on muted trumpet over a jazzy beat and some acoustic bass. Finally, \"On the Drag\" spotlights Flansburgh's love for hyper newwave punkpop, and features one of the most scorching keyboard solos since... um... something by Boston. Admittedly, it does seem a bit derivative, but it still manages to pull off a little of its own charm. They Might Be Giants would like you to think that Working Undercover for the Man doesn't really end there. Okay, sure. There are a few \"bonus tracks\" thrown in for bargain hunters. You get: three 15second jingles promoting their online Radio TMBG service, and a throwaway heavy metal take on an otherwise benign cut off their forthcoming children's album. But the fact is, these tracks contribute to the filler and make the EP seem like more of an afterthought. Therefore, since this EP is incredibly short, I will use the failsafe, Pitchforkapproved method of rating each track individually, and totaling the average (as originally implemented by Matt LeMay in his review of Console's Rocket in the Pocket): Rest Awhile: 8.0 Working Undercover for the Man: 6.5 I Am a Human Head: 8.6 Empty Bottle Collector: 4.3 On the Drag: 7.2 Radio TMBG jingles: 3.0 Robot Parade (Adult Version): 5.5 Hence, a 6.1. Seems appropriate. Working Undercover for the Man certainly has its moments, but in the end, it's just not meaty enough to pass as \"necessary.\" I mean, it's only 15 minutes long, for Christ's sake. Advice: hurry up on those fulllengths, guys. It's been five years. Honestly. "}