{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7/homepage_large.d54c2374.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Aarktica","title":"Bleeding Light","text":" Aarktica didn't seem to know what he was on 2002's ...Or You Could Just Go Through Your Whole Life and Be Happy Anyway. Jon De Rosa meshed somnolent ambient soundscapes and shoegazer melodies, drawling dolorous, justshootyourselfalready vocals that belied the richly melancholic instrumentals. As part of Darla's Bliss Out series, the album showed an uncharacteristic devotion to acoustic instrumentation, often layering brass, orchestral percussion and warbling tremolosodden guitars atop wooly electronic textures. In the end, pop won out; wellstructured songs like \"Aura Lee\" and \"Nostalgia = Distortion\" trumped the album's more nebulous sections with wan, intimate melodies. The common thread running through De Rosa's compositions, both catchy and inchoate, was sadness, and that thread continues on Bleeding Light, Aarktica's fourth and least confused album. Staking ground between Johann Johannson's cool meditative drones and Stars Like Fleas' flailing electro free jazz, the album is tonally consistent, shuffling between heavyhearted melodic ephemera and perambulating instrumental passages. The best example of the latter is \"A Shadow Knife (Draws Bleeding Light)\", which is underpinned by slowpulsing guitar drones as it ventures on an eightminute expedition led by horns and drums. Followed by the ringing doppler swells of \"We're Like Two Drops Separated By a Drowning\", the pairing cuts a tidy architectural swath across the album, bisecting its eight tracks and setting up a taut finale. \"A Wash a Sea Goodbye It's Me\" reinstates the acoustic elements; summoning Do Make Say Think with lulling guitars, soft horns and harddriven drums, the song is as close as De Rosa gets to an allout rocker. Hardly disrupting the album's swooping flow, \"A Wash a Sea Goodbye\" gives way to a pair of dronesaturated epics. The climactic title track licks a twangy middle eastern drone, spreading a murmured, meditative vocal over the slowmoving mass. The song's finale is a rare bit of populist hopefulness (\"Everyone of us is lost in our own way\"), offering tenuous yet satisfying circularity: In contrast with the oppressively grim chords of opener \"Depression Modern\", its cautious optimism rings of victory. It seems De Rosa has finally reconciled himself with unhappiness and it's that flowering that makes Bleeding Light, at times gruesome and hard to stomach, a compelling listen. "}