{"label":" Eighteenth Street Lounge","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7878/homepage_large.8d957213.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Hooker","artist":"Thievery Corporation","title":"Abductions and Reconstructions","text":" Bizarre humming and clicking noises enveloped me as I descended the stairs into my basement workshop. Startled awake in the wee hours by the otherworldly sounds, I'd grabbed the nearest vaguely weaponlike object (a french press from the kitchen counter), steeled myself for a confrontation, and started downstairs. My knuckles whitened around the handle of the french press and my breath caught in my chest. It sounded like several hundred Speak and Spells were going haywire down there bleeps and whines giving way occasionally to jumbled and unintelligible words. Crouching, I reached the bottom of the stairs. The Speak and Spell noises careened past me like bats erupting from a cave at dusk. I paused to gather my strength and stepped into the main room. As I rounded the corner, I was met with a sight that struck me dumb and loosed the useless french press from my slackened fingers. The source of the eldritch sounds was not Speak and Spells at all it was Speak and Maths, and more of them than I'd ever seen before. They covered the long wall of the room in an even grid, butted up next to each other like tiles, and fastened together with duct tape and pipe cleaners. There they all were the ghostly gurgles and beeps that had interrupted my sleep as they gonged wrong answers and trumpeted correct ones, running on some obscure program set in motion by an unseen hand. The room was filled with the calm and oceanic bluegreen glow from their LED readouts.  A gentle cough broke my reverie, and I looked to my left to see a man leaning nonchalantly against the opposite wall. He wore a white lab coat and safety goggles, and held a clipboard in one hand and a Manhattan in the other. I recognized him immediately as Pitchfork guru Brent DiCrescenzo.  \"Brent, what the hell is this thing in my basement?\"  \"Don't worry, I'll explain. But first, dig my lab coat.\" He held out an arm, and I noticed that his lab coat was satin. I felt it. It was extremely soft and comfy. Glancing down, I noticed he wore huge fluffy slippers. He went on.  \"I've noticed you've been a little down on reviews lately. You seemed downright bitter about having to write that Floraline review. I don't blame you; it's difficult work, this reviewing. That's why I've invented this device you see before you now: the ReviewOTron 3000. Watch here, hand me that Theivery Corporation disc.\"  I did as I was told. Brent inserted the disc into a modified Speak and Math, set his clipboard on the TV, and flopped onto the futon. Soon, the random bleeps coalesced into a rhythmic pulsing, and the Speak and Maths began to speak in monotone unison.  \"Abductions and Reconstructions, the quasi followup to the Thievery Corporation's Sounds From the Thievery HiFi, is a collection of remixes of songs from a surprisingly varied cross section of bands, including Baaba Maal, Black Uhuru, and Gus Gus.\"  Brent nodded. \"Not bad, eh?\"  \"No, Brent, not bad at all. But that's all factual any AllMusic Guide schmuck could tell you that stuff. What about specific tracks? What about the David Byrne song, for instance?\"  He rose and pressed some buttons. The electronic voices returned: \"Garza and Hilton possess the uncommon knack of knowing when to leave a song alone. Their remix of David Byrne's 'Dance On Vaseline' finds the vocal track almost untouched, dipped in a little extra reverb, and layered over a bed of only slightly tweaked bass and drums. It's a satisfying remix that retains the strength of the original tune but recasts it in a subtle and surprising way.\"  \"No shit!\" I exclaimed. \"What about the Stereolab tune? Can it give me a gripe about the album as a whole?\"  Another series of buttons was pressed, and again the voices spoke: \"'Tickertape of the Unconscious,' a song that would seem to resist the remix treatment, is turned into a slowly revolving groove. The background vocal is distilled and brought to the forefront, and the welcome addition of some weird, microtonal bass sequencing is a nice touch. As a whole, the album suffers only from a bit of monotony, with the songs all hovering around the same BPM and utilizing the same basic approach to percussion. Ultimately, Abductions and Reconstructions is less than the sun of its many excellent parts, though it's nice to hear Garza and Hilton backing off from the forcedsounding dubbiness of their debut.\"  I was stupefied. My years of sweaty toil at the keyboard had just come to an end. At a loss, I looked back and forth from my computer to the ReviewOTron 3000. Brent smiled with satisfaction. He picked up his clipboard, scrawled a couple notes, and sipped his Manhattan. \"There, your Sunday review is done. Now, go get a cocktail and that Vic Chesnutt disc and let's get to work!\"  "}