{"label":" Communion","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7881/homepage_large.356d630e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Thinking Fellers Union Local 282","title":"Bob Dinners and Larry Noodles Present Tubby Turdner's Celebrity Avalanche","text":" Remember KoolAid Man? You don't? Oh. Well, let me tell you about him. He was this gigantic pitcher of KoolAid who used to blast through the walls of people's homes whenever mom was mixing up a batch of the horrid bugjuice and yell, \"Oh, yeah!\" in a guttural Hulk Hogan growl. I had a lot of problems with this. For one, he was fucking terrifying! What would you do if an oversized vat of red, watery liquid came bashing through your wall, yelling, \"Oh, yeah!\" and sloshing on your floor? You'd freak out, that's what. And these people were thrilled! What about the bills for wall repair? And where did he come from, anyway? What is he, even? Though my traumatic memories of KoolAid Man and his shortlived Saturday morning cartoon may never truly fade, I think I may be able to put them in some perspective now. You see, a bizarre monstrosity recently crashed unexpectedly through my wall. And I like it. I call this monstrosity Thinking Fellers Union Local 282, and you should, too, because that's their name.Bob Dinners and Larry Noodles Present Tubby Turdner's Celebrity Avalanche is possibly the worst album title in the world, ever. But then again, the band's name is so long and awkward that the two cancel each other out. These guys' history dates back more than 15 years, but the time the band took off after 1997's disastrous tour opening for Live seems to have paid off in spades. For the life of me, I can't imagine what was going through the head of the concert promoter who teamed one of the weirdest bands San Francisco has ever produced with Secret Samadhiera Ed Kowalczyk.Celebrity Avalanche blasts open with \"Another Clip,\" a raging mass of garage rock guitars alternately pounding the Stooges into the ground and mimicking J.S. Bach with tossedoff guitar figures. The vocals are melodic, but understated. Noises enter and exit the mix seemingly at random, like a bastard offshoot of the Residents. KoolAid Man has arrived. The Piper at the Gates of Dawnstyle hand percussion and heavily processed vocals of \"Sno Cone\" call this band's collective sanity into question, especially when followed by the offkey falsetto caterwauling of the chorus. Somewhere in Heaven, Frank Zappa is smiling. Or doing speedballs with John Belushi. The album is filled with short interludes that seem to be randomly extracted bits of larger performances. \"You Will Be Eliminated\" is a 12second gossamer burst of wind noises and distant, mechanical voices, while \"Birth of a Rock Song\" sounds exactly like what its title suggests it is. \"Boob Feeler\" distorts an agesold descending bassline under spooky whistling, but refuses to develop itself, preferring instead to fade out and leave you wanting more. And then the Fellers give you \"In the Stars I Can Sizzle Like a Battery,\" which showcases more demonic guitar work from Hugh Swarts and Mark Davies. The guys also offer up some truly demented lyrics here, delivered in a hilariously melodramatic falsetto. See if you can catch the Zappa reference: \"Call Me Bruce or call me Troy or call me Dave/ I'm selling sauce in a crass parade/ Lumpy gravy dripping through my psyche/ I suspect that my synapses are flickering/ Thick and greasy, ploggered and pasty/ I do declare, there's a syrup on my sanity.\" Indeed. Even KoolAid Man has fled in terror by now. The simple truth here is that I have no idea why I like this music. I just do. There's a madcap genius that pervades everything from the brilliant progrock sendup \"Holy Ghost\" to the tenminute, eddying closer \"He Keeps Himself Fed.\" And that's not to mention the album's true masterstroke, \"You in a Movie.\" Bassist Anne Eickelberg and drummer Jay Paget lay down a thick groove while Davies, Swarts and Brian Hageman layer noises and quivery guitar riffs over the proceedings. Lee Ranaldo wishes he could be this dissonant. And the lyrics! \"A cow mooed, then it called my name/ 'I could put any one of you in a movie'/ It licked me, then it looked away/ I lost a lot of blood that day/ How's a cowpie like a cow?/ The secret's in the cow.\" What does it all mean? Frankly, I don't care. All I know is that these Thinking Fellers have made one crazy album after another for the past 13 years, and that Celebrity Avalanche is one of their best. Left field recordings like this aren't exactly hard to come by, but they're rarely this good. Provided they don't go on strike anytime soon, Thinking Fellers Union Local 282 stand to make a lot more wonderfully warped music. And KoolAid Man ain't got nothin' on that. "}