{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7892/homepage_large.fa1985f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Rosie Thomas","title":"When We Were Small","text":" Every review I've read of Rosie Thomas of anything she does makes sure to mention her standup alterego, Sheila, an extremely selfconscious social outcast who wears cokebottle glasses and a neckbrace. Some are thrown off by the comedy act, especially juxtaposed with Rosie's otherwise earnest and passionate stage show. But me, I find it adorable. In all honesty, I find Rosie Thomas adorable. I get a tingle just thinking of her. Rosie, if you're out there, I love you. Now make me babies. Have I said too much? Okay, since the cat's out of the bag, I'll just admit it. At 25 years of age, I have a crush on someone I've never met (although Rosie must share my affections: I also have a nonsexual mancrush on Brad Pitt). Rosie won me over at a concert last fall, when all I knew of the young songstress was that she'd made a cameo appearance on Damien Jurado's \"Parking Lot\" (off Ghost of David). I didn't like the tune that much, but recognizing her association with Jurado's lowkey, honest folkpop, I felt I couldn't lose. In the final analysis, I lost two things: jack and shit. The show was amazing, really, a reminder that some indie rockers can actually sing. Rosie's voice is stunning a delicate timbre, a beautiful hushed passion, with the requisite lungpower when she needs to drive home a melody. If singing range were a climbing rope, Rosie would ring the bell, and ring it often. To hit the high notes, Thomas employs a gorgeous (and apparent) transition to falsetto. You can tell she likes that shift, and the falsetto itself, as a number of the tunes on her album make that vocal acrobatic a prominent part of the melody (e.g. \"Lorraine\"). Moreover, in concert, Thomas obviously had a keen sense of dynamics during the quieter moments it became clear that, except for Thomas, the venue was in utter silence, captivated. Until she releases another album, however, I must romanticize my love for Rosie. The soundtrack to my dreams will encompass only a few of the songs on When We Were Small, notably \"Farewell\" and \"Bicycle Tricycle,\" the most sparse and fragile. I like to imagine Rosie alone on stage with a piano, a guitar, and otherwise utter silence. Her sparse compositions reveal a stunning vulnerability, her voice allowed the full measure of its expressiveness. An album with ten tracks of that sort of pure, barren indiefolk would be spellbinding. It's not unfortunate so much as it is just a fact, but much of the rest of the album is more pedestrian, weighing in with melodies and compositions that tend towards the \"pop\" end of the folkpop spectrum. Like \"Finish Line,\" for example, which harks of Sarah McLachlan, or the darker \"I Run,\" which features a hackneyed melody and orchestration that fails to sell the mood (not to mention that the repeated lyrics \"I run far from you\" are a tad weak). None of it ramps up the tempo much, or adds density to the mix it's not bad stuff, just somewhat unexceptional. There are some who will fall in love with this album. Others will fall asleep to it. Both will agree that it's a solid debut, long on talent but maybe a bit short on melody or lacking in appropriate production. I had big expectations, some of which were met, but others of which were disappointed. Nonetheless, I remain devoted. Now make me babies. "}