{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7893/homepage_large.b207c1df.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Rosie Thomas","title":"Only With Laughter Can You Win","text":" All Yankee Hotel Foxtrot squealing aside, it's never a particularly promising sign when the peripheral circumstances surrounding a record begin to supercede the actual songs, and crooner Rosie Thomas has enough welldocumented, extraneous quirks to distract just about anyone from the songtosong content of her sophomore album. It started in 2002, when Thomas' debut, When We Were Small, inadvertently introduced the world to her adjacent career as a standup comic with a Kaufmanesque alter ego named Shelia; Shelia takes the form of a seriously bespectacled and neckbraced pizza delivery woman, selfconsciously dorky and entirely outside the scope of typical singer/songwriter shenanigans (Shelia even has her very own cover band, Strawberry Jam). Presumably, the idiosyncratic pretension of Thomas' \"Shelia\" is perplexing enough to balance out her internal artistic palette because the other, singer/songwriter half of Thomas' creative repertoire is almost painfully straightforward and, incidentally, not the slightest bit funny. Check the underwhelming realization that once you tear the external oddities away from Thomas' career, you will also watch all the intrigue slowly seeping out. Conversely, Only With Laughter actually becomes sorta interesting, simply because it's so intensely benign within the context of Rosie Thomas, Performer. It's not that the album isn't a solidly crafted, fully realized work: Only With Laughter Can You Win is delicately assembled and impeccably sung, all sweet, earnest folk and peaceably strummed acoustic guitar. It's just that the record is pure Joni Mitchellbutnot, a heartbreakingly predictable singer/songwriter collection with every requisite part in place, and not a single surprise: shine some Lilith Fair folkrock through an indie lens, add some overtly sentimental verses and a roselittered cover, record it inside a historic church in Detroit (St. John's, which, like, of course dates back to 1860), and see Rosie Thomas emerge, understated and introspective, singing lots of sad and pretty songs. The formula here is pretty clearcut: tinkling piano, barelythere drums, strummy guitar, and Thomas' expressive, padded whispers relaying all her earnestly held secrets, fears, and dreams. \"I Play Music\" sees Thomas' mother, father, sister, and brothers harmonizing along with her (the subsequent chorus is full, pleasant, and lilting, but also just precious enough to make some folks cough on their chamomile tea), while \"Crazy\", Thomas' swan song to confusion (\"Crazy/ Crazy is what they've all said/ Craziness lives in my head/ Craziness lies in my bed\") sees her solo vocals at their expressive best. Enjoyment of Only With Laughter seems inextricably hinged on how high your threshold is for this kind of thing despite being a nice showcase for Thomas' clear, pitchperfect coo and softsongwriting knack, the record is exhaustively familiar, offering up all the gentle greatness of folkies past, but refusing to impose its own reinterpretations. "}