{"label":" Cooking Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7899/homepage_large.2a34c502.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jeff Leven","artist":"Richard Thompson","title":"Front Parlour Ballads","text":" One of the appeals of Richard Thompson is the variety of ways he finds to be obtusely cheeky. Take the disc out of its tray (if you're still into the whole physical copy thing), for instance, and the first thing Front Parlour Ballads treats you to is a coy riff on that Garden State scene juxtaposing a wallpaperpatternshirt against wallpaperpatternwallpaper. The only sign of restraint is that Thompson still insists on wearing that same old black beret, which, in and of itself, one suspects, is a backhanded pisstake good for a selfsatisfied smirk when the bloody interviewer comes calling.  Throughout Thompson's storied career, his rich, deep heavilyaccented voice and reverence for the deepest corners of AngloCeltic acoustic tradition haven't always been inviting to casual rockers, even if more mainstream acts like Dire Straits all but owe their existence to his subtle guitar stabs and lacey arpeggios. But a close listen to his songs tends to reveal a punk personality treacherously lurking amidst the baroque sea balladry and wispy references to the lull of the Thames.Front Parlour Ballads offers the traditional Thompson mix of lush folk beauty and cruel knifetwisting lyrics. The album is largely acoustic, saving its electricity for rousing effect on songs like opener \"Let It Blow\", in which a honeymooning cad baldly tells his bride \"as she lay on the sand he said, isn't it grand? I bring all my wives to this spot.\" While tempered by pained romantic moments like those found in \"Cressida\" and \"For Whose Sake\", Thompson is often apt to vent caustic middleaged spleen on a world of sodden domestic mouthbreathers, relegating them to the dustbin of the heart with observations like \"perhaps she doesn't want to see the heel that you've turned out to be, that's why she'll take a gin or three to drive doubts from her head.\" Meanwhile, \"When We Were Boys at School\" is an Old World literati equivalent of Pearl Jam's \"Jeremy\", although rather than biting the recess lady's breast Thompson's bullied lad ends up running some form of a military empire the one vague if abstract political gesture on an otherwise personal album. At times Thompson overreaches or comes across as heavyhanded albums that namecheck Nietzsche, Rawicz, and Hannibal tend to do that. Indeed, if someone tells you Front Parlour Ballads is a party album, that person is probably an Oxbridge medievalist on an absinthe bender. But for us less tweedy Yanks, there is still much to love amidst Thompson's proverbial light and shade, gorgeous guitar work and gallows humo(u)r. "}