{"label":" Sedimental","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/797/homepage_large.38576f30.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Olivia Block","title":"Mobius Fuse","text":" It was about three years ago that I stopped wearing headphones. This event becomes slightly more meaningful when one takes into account that all my life I've had a constant need for music, the type which leads people to use words like \"unhealthy\" and \"obsessive.\" I've always been that guy who just can't stand to be someplace where music isn't. I'm the one who makes a straightaway for the CD player or the turntable the moment he steps foot in a silent room, even if I'm only planning on staying for a minute or two. To this day, I'm shocked that the guy I shared a room with as a Freshman in college didn't stab me to death, as night after night I kept him awake, myself unable to sleep without the aid of my stereo. And yet, there came a point when I swore off carrying around Discmans and cassette players. This was around the same time that I heard Gastr Del Sol's Camoufleur. About six minutes into Camoufleur, as the first song nears to a close, the live percussion drops out. It's replaced with a recording of two girls lighting firecrackers in a field, but the switch is so seamless that the listener doesn't even notice until, as the song winds down, we hear an unidentified voice telling the girls that it's okay, they're only recording them blowing off firecrackers and not to stop. This had a profound effect on me. The idea that sounds could be music, too it was so simple that I'd missed it all along. My eyes newly opened, I shed my headphones and I began to notice the world of music that bombarded me with every step I took; the imperfect beats of rain dripping on metal, the roaring crescendo of an oncoming train, the chorus of car horns and voices that's borne from every city street. Not only did my view of the world change, but so too did my view of music. If all these wonderful sounds existed, then why did everyone insist on sticking so exclusively to guitars? It wasn't long after this that I would discover John Cage and find many of my suspicions confirmed. In a speech delivered at a convention of the Music Teachers National Association in 1957, Cage explained: \"In this new music, nothing takes place but sounds: those that are notated and those that are not. Those that are not notated appear in the written music as silences, opening the doors of the music to the sounds that happen to be in the environment.\" He went on to compare his work to \"the glass houses of Mies van der Rohe [which] reflect their environment, presenting to the eye images of clouds, trees, or grass, according to the situation. \"There is,\" he concluded, \"no such thing as empty space or an empty time. There is always something to see, something to hear.\" Cage attempted to demonstrate such theories through pieces like \"4'33,\" which consisted of a musician sitting at a piano, playing absolutely nothing for four minutes and thirtythree seconds. Though dismissed by many as pretentious nonsense, there was a point to such exercises. Cage wanted his audience to realize that there was no such thing as silence. He wanted them to come to understand, just as he had, that the sounds inherent in the world around us particularly those we most often ignored were just as important as those we might normally associate with music. These very same precepts lie at the core of Olivia Block's Mobius Fuse. Block, a twentysomething living in Chicago, plays mastermind to music that makes equal use of live musicians, field recordings and minimal pops and crackles she calls \"lofi electronics.\" More likely to lead a group of musicians from a table behind the audience, holding numbered cards beneath an office lamp to signify the beginning or end of different segments, than she is to play the traditional part of the conductor, hers is a unique mind. And with Mobius Fuse, it has given birth to something truly stunning. The first thing I noticed when I popped Mobius Fuse a 32 minute movement, the result of nearly three years of field recordings, musical sessions, and painstaking mixing into my CD player was... well, nothing. The record begins with silence. After about a minute, noise begins to seep in like red wine spilt on white fabric. Warm pops, like scratches on film, and almostmute chirping that could just as easily be a distant recording of crickets or plain old feedback fill the air for about 40 seconds, before they disappear back into the foggy silence. This is a game Block plays with her listeners, manipulating many of her field recordings to the point where they still form an image, only it's a blurry one, its source often impossible to identify. When the sound reemerges, the warm pops are accompanied by the undeniable sound of crickets up close. But soon, this revelation, along with the sound, fades. For a halfhour more, a whole spectrum of sounds meander in and out. Some are field recordings. Some are electronic noise. Some are traditional instruments Block employs a sixhorn ensemble (including wellknown Chicago talent Jeb Bishop and Kyle Bruckmann) and sampled drums and cymbals. The horns sound lush as can be, though their tone varies little. The horns' part is so static for a couple of reasons. For one, the point here is not to create music, but to contrast sounds or better yet, to explore the ways in which all sounds are alike. But more importantly, complex horn arrangements would detract from all the other sonic nuggets Mobius Fuse has to offer. As it is, the horns are just another part of the mix, never threatening to overwhelm the other sounds, and allowing the samples to develop an emotional weight usually thought of as connected to socalled \"real instruments.\" When Block presents us with a thunderstorm or the sound of firecrackers exploding, it's impossible to tell which sounds are from the recording and which are machinemade clicks. And by the time the horns bleed in for the last time, you'll have grown so used to hearing them right alongside wind, birds, bugs, ice and tape static, that you may not even register the change. But it's in the silence, every bit as much as the sound, that the true magic lies. It's in the waiting, the quiet meditative moments in between sonic spurts that come on like a rush of adrenaline, that so much of Mobius Fuse's beauty is hidden. Here, Block has assembled a deceivingly simple work of utmost subtlety. It's a work imbued with as much, if not more, emotion and complexity as anything released this year, but it will only reveal it to those listeners willing to dig far beyond the surface. In the 1950s, John Cage predicted that as experimental music (or \"structured sound,\" as he liked to call it) continued to develop, our musical language would change with it. Terms like \"resonance\" and \"discordance\" would no longer be relevant. Instead, he suggested, our conversations would consist of terms like \"music\" and \"nonmusic.\" Mobius Fuse is one of the most unique listening experiences I've come across all year, largely because it so effectively melds these two sonic landscapes together, because it recognizes that there isn't all that much setting the two apart. And by letting these soundscapes fade not only in and out of one another, but in and out of sheer silence as well Olivia Block shows us that silence has every bit the ability to transform and transport as the most beautiful of sound. "}