{"label":" File-13","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7903/homepage_large.c90fac8e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Three 4 Tens","title":"Change Is on Its Way","text":" Time travel is a concept that has fascinated many throughout history, with time machines coming to the fore of wishlists in the late 1800s as authors like H.G. Wells penned fantastic stories about scientists who'd perfected the ability to move freely from era to era with the aid of wondrous devices. Today, scientists are legitimately discussing the possibly of travel in a fourth dimension, though the systems that seem possible are a lot less flexible. One current project involves the idea that if you were to create a vortex of accelerated particles and step into it, you may be able to transport yourself back to the point at which the machine was turned on, essentially looping time back to the point of the device's creation. I don't really know the physics involved (I read about it in the newspaper several months ago), but I do know that, while interesting theoretically, such a device would be useless on a practical level. Evidence is quickly suggesting that the geekiest among us may as well abandon their fantasies of scoring with eloy chicks by day and battling vicious morlocks by night. Astoundingly, and in strict defiance of current science, it seems the Three 4 Tens have somehow managed to procure a working flux capacitor. And in a truly devious move, they've used it to travel to 1967 and steal the master tapes to the newly completed fulllength of some poor, unsuspecting garage band. Sure, their story that they formed in Philly in 1996 and released a sevensong EP and a couple seveninches soon thereafter, and that this is their bona fide \"debut album\" may sound convincing, but I don't buy it for a second. This stuff just sounds way too authentic. However, assuming that it really is a modern recording, it's the band's uncanny authenticity that saves Change Is on Its Way from simpleminded pastiche. There are a lot of 60s throwback records kicking around out there, but few evoke long, unwashed hair, a twocar garage, and a Dodge Challenger parked on the front lawn quite as well as this one. The Three 4 Tens may not be from the 60s, but they fairly drip its essence. It's as though they've never heard anything outside of the British Invasion and the Nuggets boxset, with the possible exception of a chance encounter with Beulah or the Essex Green. Producer Paul Smith, who's also worked with Marah and Steve Earle in the past, even joins in, lending the band a sound extremely similar to that of a typical psych record you'd find reissued on Gear Fab and reviewed somewhere near the back of Record Collector. Cheap organs, lowbudget wah, and droning sitars ooze out of every available nook in the band's sound, providing an incredibly apt bed for the guys to lay their thick fourpart harmonies down upon. Even while reveling almost entirely in a bygone era, Change Is on Its Way isn't an unoriginal record. It simply owes a crushing debt to another time that many simply won't be able to forgive. For those who choose to take the ride, though, it's a pretty cool trip. There are monster hooks hanging off virtually every track here, and you're guaranteed to have at least one of them roosting in your brain for a while after the disc stops spinning. \"Right on Time\" ramrods its melody into your longterm memory with thudding tomtoms and bouncy basslines, trumping the Apples in Stereo at their own retrofetish game. The band steps a little further into the void with \"Ostinato Raga,\" a raging, swirling mantra beset by marauding guitars which swoop in from above like peregrine falcons honing in on their prey. And it wouldn't be going too far out on a limb to assume that George is their favorite Beatle, given the omnipresence of droning textures on the album. The band do Todd Rundgren and the Nazz proud with \"Little Dove,\" dropping an economical guitar solo into the middle of a soup of catchy harmonies and rampaging backbeats. \"A Red Shirt Today\" bears a certain similarity to the Olivia Tremor Control's \"Hilltop Procession\" (due mostly to the way the vocals are recorded), but the harpsichords in the verse clearly swim over from the Left Banke. This gives way to the album's closer, the bizarre \"Bent Leg Chant,\" a jaunty, discordant sea shanty. In terms of execution, the Three 4 Tens seem to have used some pretty highquality equipment to get themselves back in time, perhaps sharing an apparatus with similarly skilled borrowers the Essex Green. But whereas the Essex Green tap the folk/hippie tree for their brand of transcendent nostalgia, the Three 4 Tens channel the spirit of the British Invasion through the swirling psychedelia of the Electric Prunes and the Chocolate Watchband to create some truly arresting music. I haven't heard the trick pulled off this well since XTC released their Dukes of Stratosphear project in 1985. Somewhere back in 1967, there's a band that just recorded a damn fine album, wondering where the hell their tapes went, oblivious to the fact that the sneaky bastards in the Three 4 Tens will one day release it under another name. For their part, the Tens themselves can plunder the past all they want, and though it may never amount to anything innovative or truly essential, it'll sure as hell be enjoyable. "}