{"label":" EMI","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7909/homepage_large.e2628f39.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"The Thrills","title":"So Much for the City","text":" If 2002 was a supposed resurrection of Velvet Undergroundencouraged NYC garage rock, 2003 might be the year of the Beach Boys: check The Thrills, a troop of shaggyhaired Dubliners who, after camping out in San Diego for four months, have successfully adopted the breezy, sunseeking saunter of California's muchmythologized coastal heroes. On the band's glossy debut, So Much for the City, vocalist Conor Deasy casually drops references to Big Sur and the massive, gleaming beaches of Santa Cruz, namechecking Hollywood kids, Las Vegas, and gently creeping tides while beautifully channeling the Boys' sweet coo and without the slightest hint of thick Irish brogue. Lifting styles and sounds is a ballsy proposition, but it's not a particularly shocking one. While agitated classic rock fans might be tempted to drag issues of purity and authenticity into their early morning, PBRtainted cock fights, coopting and barefaced mugging have been indisputable parts of the rock equation ever since Presley started gyrating on TV. Even the biggest late60s UK acts like the Stones and Led Zeppelin nicked their sweets from the Americana store, channeling coarse delta blues into something louder, rounder, and a little bit whiter. Therefore, The Thrills' perplexing geographic origins should ideally remain entirely irrelevant to the stuff of their record: a competent, satisfying pop spread, packed with impeccable vocal harmonies, happy keyboards, jangly guitar, and plenty of fades. That The Thrills' hometown seems so stupidly anachronistic in the context of their music is surprise! a perfectly valid quibble: their decision to metaphorically (and, temporarily, physically) transplant themselves might be the only compelling creative choice they made. So Much for the City's sticky, poppleasant aesthetic has been straightforwardly pilfered from the last fortysomething years of pop tradition (The Byrds to the Beach Boys to Ben Folds to Grandaddy) without nearly enough alterations to justify its brazen nods; even their bandname has been sported by a whole mess of artists already. I'm not saying every Irish act has to (or even should) sound like The Pogues, but The Thrills' external, sometime vaccuous pinching is clearly selfconscious, a carefully premeditated breach of expectation that causes more of a wince than a flash of pleasant surprise. Still, there are some great summersongs here: \"Santa Cruz (You're Not That Far)\" has a rolling riseandfall melody, sliding from a high, lazy pianoandvocals intro into a fullband crest, punched up by spotless harmonies, bursts of harmonica and consistently bright percussion. Majestic and equally oceaninspired, \"Don't Steal Our Sun\" features cuttime piano and drums, nicely timed shifts, and convincingly aggressive vocals, while \"Big Sur\" proves that The Thrills are capable of more than blind regurgitation: searing open with a zap of synth, the track's bouncy guitar, scratchy banjo and inescapable hooks are promising, and even the \"baby, baby, please don't go\" lyrics become kinda charming by halfway through.  Bands are always inadvertently shoveled into scenes and movements, often based on little other than their hometown addresses; it's that kind of arbitrary pigeonholing that allows for buzzwords and mediacentric \"hot spots,\" marketing tricks and random cashins. The idea of preemptively eschewing all that shit is understandably appealing but The Thrills could have thought a bit harder about finding a bright new sound to go with their suddenly sunny locale. This one's taken. "}