{"label":" Emperor Jones","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7921/homepage_large.fc3de349.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Thuja","title":"Suns","text":" People often say it's calming to listening to the sounds of nature, from weathersounds to bird calls to the lumbering of animals across terrain. Everyone has their own reasons for this, but personally, I find it refreshing because none of it's my problem: I don't know why birds sing in the morning, or why a flock of flamingos know to turn around at the exact same time. If cats are fighting in an alley, or a couple of squirrels are chasing each other in precoital scurrying, it's not my problem. While every noise in nature connects to some fact or motive, to an outsider it's just meaningless activity, and it can fade into a peaceful buzzing. What's ultimately so pleasing about the sound of Thuja's latest record is the way that they emulate nature, both in the sound a wideopen, lofi shape, what you'd expect if you recorded a hike in the woods with a tendollar Dictaphone and in their performance, which like all their work is completely improvised. While their first two records approached the open feel of these recordings, neither of them follows the concept so rigidly as Suns; where their earlier pieces often picked up clear rhythms or patterns, everything here is fluid. Thuja stick unwaveringly to one tone, even to the point of blocking themselves. Free improvisation is often expected to take on a life of its own the interactions between players cause tension, creating drama, or in some other way producing spikes and arcs but Thuja often avoids engagement. Players will interact and then swiftly unlock for fear of getting each other worked up, and in these moments, any intensity swiftly dissolves. To generalize, sound sculptor Loren Chasse and pianist and keyboardist Rob Reger take the more environmental roles: the sampled noises of bird songs or unexplained thrashing, and the sheer size of the production play major parts in every piece, if for no other reason than because they make the recognizable instruments sound small and even incidental. That includes Reger, who fixes drones with sustained tones, and Steven R. Smith and Glenn Donaldson, who pluck and clang across the top. I won't try to identify all the instruments and percussion on this record, since even the normal plucking of stringed instruments (like the steady line on track five) can sound bizarre. The variety of noises a radio frequency hum, a quick percussion loop, the extreme garbled noises on track eight make the album sound mysterious. If you didn't look it up, you wouldn't even know how many people are on this record, but it's mainly the way they taped it that makes it feel so sprawling and unpredictable. Like a field recording, you get the sense that even when you stumble upon a conventional piece of music, the person holding the tape recorder could just wander off to check out something else. Take the different sections of track five, for example: the break halfway through sounds like someone just hit the \\x93pause\\x94 button, and we have no idea why. If I had to sum up the experience of listening to this record in one word, it would probably be \\x93arbitrary\\x94; like nature, it has its reasons and we don't need to know. Thuja stick to their tactics unrelentingly, and sustain interest with an album that seemingly has nothing human to communicate: no clear motivations, no shifts in mood, and ultimately, no information, just an endless stream of activity that's pleasing for its own sake. This is not, therefore, a record that you'll really love, or that'll hold your attention from endtoend; you might like to look at a bunch of trees, but how often you do remember any one of them? That intangibility doesn't make this any less refreshing, however its faceless ambience is nearly as soothing as total silence. "}