{"label":" Emperor Jones","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7922/homepage_large.ec71a0bd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Thuja","title":"Ghost Plants","text":" Thuja are a quartet based out of San Francisco. They play improvisational music and mostly lay down live takes, no processing. Glenn Donaldson and Stephen Smith were former members of psychedelicists Mirza, sound collagist Loren Chasse has worked with Id Battery, and pianist Rob Reger provides the most distinctive element of the band's sound his piano lines add a slight sense of structure to the instrumental meanderings. Thuja don't write songs, per se. Rather, their albums flow together like field recordings of poltergeists romping through abandoned factories. It's intense, sometimes dissonant music, but often highly rewarding. The review of Thuja's The Deer Lay Down Their Bones was my first for Pitchfork, so it might be forgiven that I never quite said outright what I was getting at. I mentioned that one of the virtues of ambient and improv music is that you can pay different levels of attention to it. It's an ideal form of music to play while at work, because you can get too caught up in pop songs and their catchy choruses. But I neglected to illustrate the implications of Thuja's music, which sounds for all the world like springs busting out of clockfaces at times. Their structural unsteadiness was a secret pleasure for me during the ninetofive, a way to fantasize the collapse of all the machines of industry.Ghost Plants is more of the same. Again, with the new album's title and the tree photo in the insert, they seem to make an appeal to nature. The cedar (genus: Thuja) can cause dermatitis to those who touch its sap, but refined tinctures can ease a variety of toxic reactions. Ghost plants, a more informal grouping, are defined by their benign nature, so it's interesting that the music here should be more dark than that of the band's debut. You're greeted with the death knell of a chandelier, almost, sounds of glass fracturing and being swept about. Enter a guitar chord, plucked over and over, monotonous, dull yet aggressive. A few piano notes whisper from some faded place, but it does little to temper the alien modemgarble patches of noise. Each of the tracks are untitled, but they cut between each other more obviously now. Track three begins abruptly with handdrumming and chainlike rattling, shackles being shaken perhaps. It's the only overt rhythm on the entire album, but of course the funk quickly fades from the musique concrète to be replaced by thick keyboard hum and phantom synth oscillations. The stark, oppressive atmosphere moves towards a more quiet, fluid flow by track six. Reger taps out short Morse code messages on the piano, and slivers of heartfelt melody are wrangled out of the guitar. The piano cadences and reverbed clangs later on would feel dissonant if left on their own, but cycled together they create a whirlpool similar to Günter Müller and L\\xEA Quan Ninh's work on La Voyelle Liquide. The album shifts into a more appreciable silence, but could hardly be called peaceful. There's a moment when you realize the silt that's been sifting through the background is gradually becoming a giant cloud of distortion, shimmering prettily and yet hiding disturbing things inside like the best Ah CamaSotz tracks. And though there are signs of Harold Buddstyle minimalist composition near the end, the faintest sample of a woman's voice singing wordlessly probably ends things best. Thuja's environmental allusions just don't hold truck; I'll opt for the other image in the title: Ghost Plants as phantom factories. If The Deer Lay Down Their Bones was the sound of those rusty iron cogs turning, these later tracks are the humming power sources that feed the wheels. Though I preferred the more consistent segues on the debut, it's amazing that this music is played by human beings. Fans of the Shalabi Effect and Einstürzende Neubauten would do well to track this one down. "}