{"label":" Emperor Jones","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/7924/homepage_large.ff04fdae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Thuja","title":"All Strange Beasts of the Past","text":" Listening to Thuja, it's hard not to imagine a pantomiming circle of witches. Or warlocks, I guess. All Strange Beasts of the Past, the quartet's fourth album, is especially backwoods esoteric. It's hard to say how much hocuspocus is intended; you need to locate a certain mood to get it. If willing and able, maybe you should invoke the proper mood. Like wander a forest until you find the right tree. Try to sleep then. Wake up. Eat dirt. Ostensibly, these are the sorts of things that connect you to an environment. Or watch treetops catch the wind and assign meaning to the patterns of dispersal. If it gets cold, let needles and sap cover you completely. Or bed beneath a white cedar. Wake up again. Stay there. Build instruments. Adapt. Play something based on your experience. You can obviously enjoy this music without going mystic, but if you do follow this program, maybe you'll achieve a David Tibetstyled inward light, a glowing path towards deciphering the more cryptic messages embedded within Thuja's admirably understated, unformed folk. Though I live in overcrowded Brooklyn, I'm continually seduced by San Francisco's Jewelled Antler Collective. The best of pedigrees, Thuja's a Jewelled Antler supergroup that includes active members of The Birdtree, Blithe Sons, Dead Raven Choir, Id Battery, and Hala Strana. What bothers me as a citybound fan of these freepsych folkies are the subtleties I might miss, the wilted tones drowned by the germinfested subway, overdriven car stereos, and unending construction. Somehow the \"let's record in the woods\" aesthetic seems lost amid pornographic skyscrapers and memorials. Making things more difficult on their fourth stellar release, the quartet never musters a human voice. Without Glenn Donaldson's haunting vocalizations, especially effective on The Birdtree's brilliant Orchards & Caravans, the chill of the languidly paced instrumentals acts as a blankeyed frontman spitting code. Here, he keeps quiet. Because of this dependence on instrumental interplay, I can't imagine these songs separated from one another. There aren't singles, or hits. No hooks or choruses. And the album reads weirdly when approached as separate fragments leading to a resolution. Instead, consider these compositions as interwoven moments in a single chapter. Maybe overlapping shadows. Actually, the same notion of serial compositions could be applied to the work of the Jewelled Antler Collective in general. In its oeuvre, subsequent projects are additional layers in a narrative that maps the players' aesthetic and social concerns: field recordings, collage, reworked standards, emulation of naturally occurring sounds, found instruments, melancholy tunefulness, mournful drone, deep listening, hybridization, and a disciplined but ecstatic improvisational sense. On All Strange Beasts of the Past, the compositional sense is languidly collagist. Sound patterns develop biologically and usher scattered movements and functions from one moment to the next. Eastern drone. Shakers take the forefront. Water droplets chime. Deep percussive hums create a foundation. Random bells and anarchic guitar strums add a sense of ghostly connective tissue to otherwise freeform acoustic ramblings. It's a cracked fireside chorus. As with a number of Jewelled Antler releases, the noisemakers are often unidentifiable: a water stick, crackling wood, synth drone, spring reverb, twittering crickets, violin. Recorded live with no processing, each tone has a pristine, temporarily dreamy feel, especially the ghostly, echoed pianos on track five, and the tapping and shuddering of tin or metal on track seven. Despite my emphasis on whispers, the volume does jolt upwards a during that seventh track. It's a 17+ minute incantation wrapped in the fits and starts of clanking bottles, background rattle, bowed strings, whirrs, upperlevel screech, outoftune callandresponse, and a muted snarl. Even during its loudest moments, though, gurgling water and the ringing of acoustic strings are clearly discerned. It's an acoustic shout and compositionally, it's just as fractured as the six tracks before it. By avoiding a selfcontained climax, the piece remains unresolved, assuring the listener this chapter's still open in either direction. And though I'm unsure where the story goes next, All Strange Beasts of the Past remains exquisitely opaque: ambient hiss recast as northwoods divination. "}