{"label":" ArtistDirect","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/802/homepage_large.1f9ad2ee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"The Blood Brothers","title":"Burn Piano Island, Burn!","text":" I stand on one side of a great divide, surrounded by overanalytical obsessives in tattered, earthtone clothes, our confidence or insecurity dependent on the obscurity of our record collections. We sigh in disdain at the revelers across the chasm, whose pink hair, studded belts and denim signify clueless victimization at the hands of madeup TRL rebels and oneword \"garage\" bands. We've been eyeing each other with suspicion and contempt for years, but taking stock of the current situation, it seems that, for their uncritical record collections, the Manic Panic pagans are having a lot more fun than the sheepish, socially retarded \"aesthetes\" around me. Though I'm probably too old to party with the opposition, I'm lately having more fun observing their exuberance than enduring the paranoid stares of a thousand overcautious pretenders to the tastemaking throne. I'd been looking for a way out of here for months when I caught the daring stare of an obnoxious 21 yearold siren with naturally a Neurosis patch stitched to her bike bag. She led me away from the shittalking, permanently dissatisfied masses, her fluorescent jelly bracelets my beacon in pitch black, until, rounding a sharp corner, the flaming pyres of a milelong overpass lit up the night sky. I crossed this burning bridge last weekend, and learned I have Seattle's Blood Brothers to thank for completing this monumental span, which Refused broke ground on some years back. The Blood Brothers' early singles and fulllength debut, This Adultery Is Ripe, barely rose above forced, overeager screamo; they had moments, but were very late to a game played best by Rorschach and Born Against. As with their recent tourmates Milemarker, however, The Blood Brothers grew in leaps and bounds, offering hugely improved compositions and a more authentic mania on their second LP, 2002's March On, Electric Children! They made the bold and/or questionable decision to sample Nine Inch Nails' \"Perfect Drug\" on \"Kiss of the Octopus\", then closed the album with an exasperated solo piano version of \"American Vultures\". Dramatic gear shifts like this are a dangerous dare: you either drop your transmission or leave the competition in the dust. I'd lost sight of The Blood Brothers since March On, and didn't know if they'd pulled ahead or fallen behind. As soon as I caught Burn, Piano Island, Burn in the rearview, I took my foot off the gas in defeated awe. They've lapped me. Drowningman recently flipped the switch on hardcore with their mathematical fury, but The Blood Brothers take things even farther, stripping away the violence and meathead confrontation, setting grindcore's highpitched wailing and tempo freakouts against deliberate, menacing vocals informed by Ian Svenonius and, in places, The The's Matt Johnson. Milemarker's Satanic Verses (which I savaged for its inconsistency) obviously drew something from The Blood Brothers' approach, but Burn, Piano Island, Burn (recorded by Ross Robinson) is frighteningly more slick in production, promotion, technique and import. Yet it's full of so much substance that its composite opposition heady art vs. commercial appeal is almost selfnegating. This record is impossible. After their halfminute statement of intent (\"Guitarmy\"), \"Fucking's Greatest Hits\" borrows a funkera Stevie Wonder guitar riff that, incredibly, winds around a trademark Jesus Lizard bassline. The song's bloodthirsty chorus never lets up, flailing wildly out of the gates. While the album's title track begins in even more overtly reptilian territory (borrowing from \"Killer McHann\"), it's also more controlled than its spastic predecessor, slowing things down to a followalong pace, and showcasing the almost feminine, metallic squeal that dominates the record and draws Korn and MeltBanana fans in equal number. The central choruses of \"Burn, Piano Island, Burn\" are among the catchiest moments on the record, offering pagan incantations from a surreal cutandpaste evisceration of society, but these messages are hidden in the record's lyric sheet, all but indecipherable on tape. \"I buried my bride of eightinch fingers deep in the hungry quicksand/ I buried our child of pineapple skin where the generic sunsets sparkle so bland.\" The lead single \"Ambulance vs. Ambulance\" is heavily evocative of The The, running like \"Infected\" or \"Jealous of Youth\" at 45 RPM in its calmer moments, but the smooth, speedy verse is shattered by a stabbing prechorus attack, teasing before the song launches into a fourchord bullet train refrain. For its simplicity, the chorus is welcome reprieve from the murderous shrieking and stop/start chaos that can make this album completely overwhelming on a straight listen. The breakdown is indicative of sinister intent, one of few moments you'll decipher without text aides: \"You'll never see your wife and children again/ So tell us what was going through your head/ When you looked into their eyes and said/ \"No thanks, I'll take the hooker instead.\" The swaying reggae tempos behind \"Every Breath Is a Bomb\" are an unfortunate lowlight on this otherwise superb album think No Doubt on bad acid but beyond that illadvised trip, the problem with Burn, Piano Island, Burn is the very one they set out to attack. It's hard to take hardcore anywhere new. Of the three major breaks with expectation, two fail, and in addition to the melting image of Gwen Stefani I'm stuck with, \"God Bless You, Blood Thirsty Zeppelins!\" conjures Marilyn Mansonian melodrama in its second half, where overdone zombie choruses preface chugging, straightahead radio rock. In contrast, The Blood Brothers' third break with form is stunning and completely unexpected. \"The Shame\" stomps a sedated march, a sincere ballad that arises in a perfect dawn chorus for the lecherous allnighter in their wake, shamefully admitting, \"Everything is going to be just awful when we're around.\" The reverseguitar ache and mounting snare rolls are unnecessarily interrupted, however, as a minute or so of the by now too familiar screamo explosions come crashing down. \"The Shame\" would have made a better straight finale without the regression; that the song cuts off in midstream is enough of a middle finger to convention. Burn, Piano Island, Burn balances so perfectly between commercial appeal and untainted creativity that it's as if the band have been digitally inserted atop a mountain no man can conceivably climb. Like their cutup artwork, The Blood Brothers offer an incongruous marriage of humor, hate and heresy, proving themselves a dedicated collective of disparate brilliance. Burn, Piano Island, Burn devours illusion, and unites clashing factions by reducing them to powerless spectators: The pretentious and the preening look pretty much the same with their jaws on the floor.  "}