{"label":" Dim Mak","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7967/homepage_large.46c0ecd9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Tokyo Sex Destruction","title":"Le Red Soul Communitte (10 Points Program)","text":" Squeezing out meaning from their bilingual liner notes I noticed whoa! go figure those wacky kids in Tokyo Sex Destruction have the goddamn same last name! Hold up, keep a lid on: before you go running home announcing that you just stumbled upon Spain's garagerock Jackson 5, note first that there are only four guys and, second, the brothers Sinclair are kicking it MC5 political, not a bit biological. In punk, a shared surname might represent unity, a gimmick, a constructed band history. With the Ramones and the Danielson Famile, there's a bit of each. In this case, though, the move's obviously a nod to the band's hero, John Sinclair, the white panther philosopher and agent provocateur behind the Detroit faves mentioned above. So why adopt the surname of the guy who didn't even pick up a guitar? Only getting half the MC5's genius, J.C. (drums, voice, Hammond, claps), R.R. (lead guitar, voice, and claps), R.J. (second guitar and spiritual advisor), and S.F. (fuzz bass, voice and claps), are content to shout \"hey!\" and play dressup in that MakeUpmeetsTheHives, blackpantswithwhitebelt style. I just wonder why the spiritual advisor doesn't get to clap. Sometimes appearance is everything. Here, the product's coated in revolutionaries, public protest, Black Panther rallies. Tokyo Sex Destruction also offers a conceptual framework in which Le Red Soul Communitte (spelled differently on the cover, side, actual CD, and when it appears as the name of a song) is treated not only as the title of the album, but also an actual, difficulttospell organization. Commies are very sinister, right? Especially ones with soul! Continuing the fashion statement, the liner notes include \"Revolutionary Violence\", a Hallmark version of Noam Chomsky. They subtitle the album a \"10 Points Plan\" and though I listened closely for the fucking plan, all I could figure out is that they love soul music. To be honest, I'm still unsure how that forms any kind of legitimate escape route. TSD aren't all slick styling, though. \"Break Out\", the opener, is a great song. Clapping through its tight syncopation I found myself pretty excitedly thinking that not since those sassy N.O.U. guys offered kidsintheknow a thirteenpoint plan to destroy America have revolutionaries armed with swaggering guitar chops, Hammond organ, tambourines, a vague political argot, and fine sartorial choices kicked it so righteously. Ah, but bliss is an evanescent son of a bitch: at just about the threequarter mark of the first blast, the band rears into full pontification mode. When the guitars fall back but the handclaps and rhythm section keep up, rest assured that the vocalist's about to start talking shit. For his first sermon, R.J. tells us that a large percentage of people are unable to afford their rent, but rich people spend a lot of money on junk. In rock music, as in emotional oratory, the force of the delivery causes more of an effect than the bare material, so maybe I shouldn't judge the band on its empty political posturing. To cite the cliché, it's not what you say it's how you say it. So, ideally, the energy, the sweat and adrenaline are the message? You dig? Me neither. Not until the eponymous final track does this band make good on the promise of the album's opening track: \"Le Red Soul Communitte\" has the ferocious energy of \"Break Out\" but adds a layer of distorted percussion and superfuzz bass. It's more nonverbal than the eight middling tracks before it and relies nicely on an interchange between the pealing feedback of dueling guitars, organ, and barely there handclaps. Nice stuff. When modeling sound on an obvious archetype, strong writing with solid hooks become essential. I mean, why not toss in a catchy chorus or other brief moments of distinction? When Tokyo Sex Destruction get around to clapping outside the box and tap into some genuine rock verve, they transcend simply parroting their past masters and wind up sounding okay. But those moments are rare: at this point the Sinclair family proves to be but another band sloppily evoking a nostalgic rock history, sansurgency. It's a politics of misheard intangibles, a lightweight taking on something that once weighed much more. "}