{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7976/homepage_large.1ba5a194.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Jenny Toomey","title":"Tempting: Jenny Toomey Sings the Songs of Franklin Bruno","text":" Gender coincidence: What a buttweird year it's been for the women, as they celebrate eightyodd years of the right to vote in this land of liberati. Cat Power's You Are Free could lullabotomize a speed freak, Lisa Germano's new ferris wheel warns that you must be over thirty to ride, and Karen O's Yeah Yeah Yeahs crosswired all anticipation by releasing the year's best singles collection masquerading as an album. The finer offerings from the speculumprone have been the results of collaborative efforts (Ms. John Soda, The Majesticons, The New Pornographers, Adult., Fruit Bats), which sent me digging through last year's whilewewereout promo stack in search of a grrl who could strr my leftover soul. And even the crème of that plastic slurry is a disc on which a female salvages the work of a subpop patriarch. Shrimper and Inland empiricist Franklin Bruno is best unknown for his solo heapings, or for his work as one half of The Extra Glenns with The Mountain Goats' John Darnielle, or as the frontman for the illrecorded Nothing Painted Blue. He's a clever sod, often to a fault, as his songs build to rhymes/puns of which the listener detects he is all too proud. So he occasionally comes across as a neurotic talent, like that guy who has to do a bicycle trick on every corner. Bruno's covers, though, are reverent; consult his sweet take on \"What Are You Doing New Year's Eve?\" Jenny Toomey ran the Simple Machines label and (among other bands) led the agitprop outfit Tsunami, a group that indie traffickers felt bound to like, despite its nighmonochromatic sloganlyrics. Toomey's recent activist role is as the executive director of the Future of Music Coalition, which wages a noble losing battle against the megamedia casseroles who will insure that your children burn the Dixie Chicks' children at the stake, with help from, say, Coke, which will by then be called Water and will be pumped into Americans at birth to ensure that they're on schedule for their Puberty/Insulin implants at thirteen.Tempting seamlessly melds the strengths of Toomey and Bruno while tempering their indulgences. Toomey's voice is a brash and sensitive weapon with a deep trill that can suggest a cabaret where the armpit hair is off the hook (okay, a drag Scott Walker), but it also retains a humble twang (and onkey warble) reminiscent of elastic crooners such as Iris Dement or Jimmie Dale Gilmore. Bruno's songcrafting chops deserve the fleshout they receive not only from Toomey's careful inflections, but from the arrangements of the eleven terrific musicians involved. You won't make it through opener \"Your Inarticulate Boyfriend\" without noting some scariachi that is particularly Calexican: yup, Joey Burns and John Convertino are in the house. Bruno himself contributes elegant guitar and piano so convincingly that one wonders why he ever dicked around with powerpop, while Amy Domingues multitasks on castanets, organ, cello, and bass. About that opener: it is so damn funny, about an intellectually hierarchical bond in which one partner \"holds up both ends of the conversation.\" The majority of the songs present relationshippery as a surrender brimming with risk and \"martyrdom\" and compromise, but couply togetherness remains an irresistible proposition. \"Cheat\", for example, is a gorgeous plea for a rendezvous reeking of ethical abandon. \"Only a Monster\" concludes: \"I wouldn't be frightened if you were a monster/ But you're only human and that's even worse.\" \"Pointless Triangle\" uses a Ouija board to negotiate a tryst, with a great line about the almost psychotic exclusivity that emerges in intense courtship: the speaker confesses that \"the small of your back\" is where \"the weight of the world\" lies. Politiquing surfaces on \"Masonic Eye\", which asks its object of desire, \"Will it take a war between the classes/ To get you to digest what you consume?\" And \"Unionbusting\" presents a long affair as parallel to failed labor negotiations. The western swing vibe expands endearingly to bossa nova at points on the record, with only the resolute defeatist anthem \"Every Little Bit Hurts\" threatening to Sheryl Crowify itself and \"Let's Stay In\" sounding so showtuney that the listener hurls sugar substitute. The rest of Tempting showcases the good kind of vomitinducing beauty. Hell, \"Empty Sentiment\" could open an existential sitcom, maybe with Kirk Cameron as Dad this time. Toomey's choice of tributizing Bruno's sapalog is ten times more effective than releasing an album about Clear Channel or RIAA rape. In this era of automatonic uncuriosity and assent, being humane and compassionate is almost radical. Tempting makes me want to do something as definitively hohum as have kids, even if they're going to be wiped out by a cancer wave or fried by a homeless genius with nuclear roller skates. I hope she loves that, even as an activist in a time of abominable transgressions, she made a \"love\" album, because (sniff) love is real. The guilt in these songs is, too. You know this if you ever saw a documentary about Palestinian rubble, but stayed transfixed by your date's fantastic hands. "}