{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7992/homepage_large.93e11ad6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Town and Country","title":"C'mon","text":" C'mon, indeed. \"C'mon\" while you wait for an eightminute exercise in tragic monotony to develop into anything at all (it never does). \"C'mon\" when you realize that the next song is exactly the same. \"C'mon\" with cautious optimism as you search frantically for some of aspect of Town and Country's latest splur to justify the twelve bucks you were (hopefully not) forced to pay; a search that becomes more fruitless with every track. \"C'mon\" as you wait for the wreckage of this album to stop smoldering in your CD player after fortyfour minutes of nothing but wasted time. Postrock, at its best, is utterly transportive no longer relying on the limitations of traditional form and instrumentation frees the genre's arrangements to navigate soundscapes unreachable by most practitioners of the verse/chorus/verse rock dogma. Unfortunately, Town and Country is less like postrock and more like preinteresting. C'mon rejects the most unique and dynamic aspects of the genre in exchange for numbing repetition and structures as rigid and monolithic as a bomb shelter. And finally, after being reconciled to the poverty of C'mon's musical value, there's not an emotion to be found in its clinically detached artiness. I'm not trying to criticize Town and Country for failure to adhere to the postrock party line; change is good just not when it's a giant step backwards. The idea of challenging genre convention is fantastic in retrospect, much of Tortoise's early work looks like aimless tailchasing after being contrasted with the sweep of Standards' heretoforeunseen grandeur. But, of course, that sort of vision is difficult and in short supply, so the question that Town and Country asks is, \"Why bother issuing a challenge when it's so much easier to retreat?\" And, out of politeness, C'mon serves as its own answer: lacking any dynamism, complexity, or invention, the relentless drone of most of these tracks is a shallow, reactionary statement to the progress of the postrock genre, and completely unedifying. This is more of a technical study than an actual album; less than a thought is given to emotion, drama, or anything else that might be even remotely compelling to the listener. Any impact these tunes might have is accidental spillover from their titles, making them little more than hoaxes; listen to \"Going to Kamakura\", and sure, it sounds to be (very) vaguely of Japanese descent, but listen to it without a tracklist and it barely qualifies as Muzak. These little trips to nowhere are designed to be studied (since you can't get close enough to the music to truly enjoy it); call it Music to Smoke Cloves By (to broadly paraphrase my esteemed colleague Mr Sirota's critique). As a unit, C'mon borders on being entirely indigestible. The closest it comes to listenability arrives at the beginning and the end of \"The Bells\", which, as the name implies, is a lengthy trumpet solo. The cloying vibraphone, bells, and feathery acoustics that populate the rest of the album are mercifully absent, and the melody actually approximates a real human emotion (fond regret, perhaps?). But it bookends three minutes of a single trumpet note being blown in steady rhythm, unintentionally invoking another human emotion: anger. I don't know what I'd prefer an album so mechanical and uninspired as to be almost robotic, or one so frustrating that it makes me swear at my speakers. Wait, that's right; neither. "}