{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13191/homepage_large.dd1a66b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Town and Country","title":"5","text":" Few bands make music that attracts more indifference than this postrock instrumental quartet, who five albums in (check the title) have yet to make the dramatic change in their style that would pull in new listeners. They aren't inept, amateurish or even exactly boring, but their parlor music takes a slow and emotionally neutral path that almost fights against engagement. The typical Town and Country piece moves as painfully as old people crossing the street. If you can't settle into it, you get frustrated thinking of all the things they don't do: they don't have the apocalyptic drama of the Constellation Records bands (e.g., Godspeed You! Black Emperor, Do Make Say Think, Set Fire to Flames), and they also steer clear of the sentimental heartstringtugs and oldsepiatoned filmstrips of, say, Rachel's. Their long tones lack the primitive clarity of deeplistening music, and the arrangements pick up the subtlety and repetition of the minimalist composition, but they skip the rigor and rigidity of the academy for something more natural and less satisfying. To say they evoke Feldman, Reich or Messiaen is like saying the longhaired kid down the hall \"sounds like\" Jimi Hendrix. If nothing else, the album is beautiful. The arrangements may sound like staid chamber music, but the fact that it's the same four people swapping off between these instruments horns here, strings there, harmonium, guitar and some unrecognizable whistles or percussion gives the album some vigor. And you'll get plenty of time to contemplate the timbres of every instrument they use, because the pace is mostly laborious. \"Aubergine\" and \"Old Fashioned\" follow an introduction/tension/resolution arc, but the melodies roll out so, damn, slowly that the tracks feel too long even at five or ten minutes (respectively). When \"Lifestyled\" bursts in with a rattling, whistling flurry of action, it might finally grab your attention, but only for about half a minute, after which it settles into a shallow, meandering arrangement. But some of the album's other moments offer a more engaging approach. The opening track, \"Sleeping in the Midday Sun\", opens with sustained tones on strings and a horn, intense enough to leave a dent in your forehead before it segue to trancelike percussion led by a triangle. On \"Nonstop Dancer\", what could have been another rote stretch of ambling, bynumbers postrock finds a center of gravity in long, droning sounds. And pulsing rhythms drive \"Shirtless\" into shifting patterns of percussion, sparking the record's most spontaneous playing. Though Town and Country are far from the first band to take this path, the drones and hypnotic percussion fit their mission: they're naturalistic, evenly paced, and not distractingly complicated. Instead of lulling you into simplicity, they excite you with it, focusing you into the buzzing center of their music. While there are plenty of bands doing better work with the same materials, Town and Country sound so committed in these moments so elated by what they're doing that you actually forget to want more from them. "}