{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/7993/homepage_large.f364fdaa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Town and Country","title":"Up Above","text":" In 2004, the Chicagobased quartet Town and Country toured and performed with minimalist pioneer Tony Conrad, an association that by all appearances seems to have provided the longrunning group with a proper dosage of both validation and inspiration. Though Conrad himself doesn't appear on Town and Country's sixth album Up Above, his creative influence is felt acutely throughout, as the group deliver what is by far their most vigorous and diverse collection to date. Rigged with an assortment of obscure folk instruments (Japanese shakuhachi, Moroccan guimbri, Chinese khaen) and with a newfound emphasis on vocals and percussion, Town and Country here perform within an expansive, panethnic cosmology that's been barely hinted at on their earlier albums, managing a surprising number of ecstatic peaks along the journey. On previous releases like 2003's 5, Town and Country's minimal, realtime excursions could terminate in pieces so static that they often appeared inert and featureless, like heliumfilled aircraft lacking the sturdy framework necessary to transport passengers. Here the group's directional shift is immediately evident on the opening \"Sun Trolley\". Following a brief fanfare of chimes and droning reeds, the piece nods respectfully to Conrad with an abrupt solo of sawtoothed viola before again shifting into an homespun gamelan maze of mouth harp, sitar, and hand percussion. It's an introduction that may come as a small revelation for those familiar with the glacial, soporific modulations of Town and Country's past work, but even so does little to prepare the listener for the vibrancy of Up Above's multihued performances. Primarily recorded during summer 2005 in group member James Dorling's Chicago apartment, the album nevertheless captures the open space of some distant Silk Road tributary. On tracks like \"Phoney Fuckin Mountain\" or \"Fields and Parks of Easy Access\", Town and Country recall some of the casual East/West unions of Popul Vuh's Hosianna Mantra. Elsewhere, the percussive likes of \"Cloud Seeding\" or the plucked strings of \"Bee Call\" can so resemble composer Tan Dun's film scores that you'll be on the lookout for shadowy martial warriors leaping across the rooftops. Conrad's influence is felt again on \"King of Portugal\", a dense improvised psychdrone based upon a traditional Portuguese Christmas carol, with Dorling's semiwordless vocal providing additional cryptic overtones. The set culminates with the nineminute title track, a volcanic freeform ritual that scatters the album's many gilded threads to the four winds, along with all thoughts of placid minimalism. As with the rest of Up Above, this tranceinducing miniepic is remarkable for its variant textures and periodic bursts of dissonance, neither of which have figured much in Town and Country's past work. As such, the album does rather muddle the group's ongoing identity, but hopefully future releases can serve to confirm this album as the watershed it now appears to be. "}