{"label":" Jetset","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/7996/homepage_large.fe02bb90.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Tram","title":"A Kind of Closure","text":" Slow down, man. No, slower than that. A little slower. Okay, you're almost there, just a bit slower. Right, now you're moving at roughly the same speed as Tram, one of the least propulsive rock acts in Britain I can think of. Only once over the course of ten songs on their third album, A Kind of Closure, does the band even break 80 bpm, on the relatively galloping \"Only Then.\" Of course, that's not necessarily a bad thing, though. Low move at a snail's pace through everything they do and everybody loves them, right? For their part, Tram take their slowcore approach very seriously, allowing the lush arrangements sitting on top of the barelythere drums and sparsely strummed guitars to draw you into their world. Once you're there, Paul Anderson lies in wait with a veritable arsenal of downtrodden lyrics to bring you down, or, depending on your mood, simply put you to sleep. Anderson's high, fragile voice manages to cut through even the densest music on the album, occasionally rising to a fey falsetto somewhat reminiscent of Geneva's Andrew Montgomery. Of course, in this context, the word fragile simply refers to his tone, and not to his ability too often \"fragile\" is simply a word used to nicely say \"barely in tune,\" but Anderson's vocals have a genuine, glasslike clarity and vulnerability to them, especially when he nails those high notes. Anderson and his partner, drummer Nick Avery, have managed to assemble a stronger batch of songs for A Kind of Closure than for either of their previous efforts, hitting their stride early with the trappedinice loneliness of opener \"Three Years.\" All eyes are cast down as Anderson delivers tidbits like, \"Detected a joy/ He knew was a flaw,\" in a piercing falsetto before a solid piano part pulls him from the iceflow and onto the dry ground of the chorus. That's followed by the more rhythmically inclined \"Forlorn Labour\" and the stark title track, which opens with the lines, \"There's a real lack of compassion in your voice/ As you tell me the news.\" The song builds to a stunning conclusion as an orchestral freezer blast of strings and horns carries you to the album's countrytinged and decidedly warmer midsection. \"A Painful Education\" is laced with lazy fiddle and steel guitar, but it's one of the few songs that fails to really go anywhere, instead content to drag slowly along on an acoustic guitar base, without the benefit of Avery's percussion. \"Forgive Me Dear\" fares much better with its soft fingerpicking and understated drums, using the steel more texturally and coloring the vocal with some very subtle Leslie. As strong as most of the vocal tracks are, though, two of the album's standouts are actually instrumentals the brief, horndrenched \"Theme\" and the comparetively uptempo waltz \"The Hope Has Been Taken Away.\" The latter begins slowly, with just minimal guitar and muted trumpet, but the drums soon drag it lurching forward, strings swirling in the undertow. The horns enter with close, dissonant voicings, recalling a slightly tamer version of secondLP Tindersticks. The unfortunate thing for a band like Tram is that their appeal is likely to always be limited simply because of their chosen range of tempos. And there are always moments where it gets somewhat tiresome at their sparsest, Tram fail to give off much steam, but for the most part there's enough going on to keep you invested. Based on their three albums so far, Tram are on an upward quality curve, which leaves a lot of hope that they might yet make a whole album full of the tension and stately grace that mark the best moments here. For now, if you're looking for a quiet, slow album that's easy to spend a lot of time with, this one comes highly recommended. "}