{"label":" Jetset","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/7998/homepage_large.250c4df9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Camilo Arturo Leslie","artist":"Tram","title":"Frequently Asked Questions","text":" FAQ regarding Tram's Frequently Asked Questions Q: Well, what do they sound like? A: Tram, a band frequently likened to Low, happens to be similarly atmospheric and slowpaced. But the resemblance ends there. In place of Low's Spartan restraint and Duluthian Mormon mystique are a tendency toward sedative multiinstrumental lullabying and a heavy dose of wispy, British melancholy. Tram's arrangements are vibrantly lush, even orchestral at times, but never crowded. Paul Anderson's buttery, androgynous voice and a constant presence of liquid, fullbodied acoustic guitar strumming are the mainstays of Tram's soporific sound. Tempowise, I'd say a tree sloth could really rock out to this shit. Q: So, they're like British, huh? Can I expect glib riffs and pop hooks galore? A: Uh, well, no. Not really. Poignant, pretty memories abound, but not quite in \"galore\" concentrations. Anderson's singing is actually somewhat understated. He'll often place his accents on the first beat of every measure for an effect of stoned, rolling, wavy momentum. A second, instrumental melody mostly slide guitar or arpeggiated chords often lurks in the shadows and embellishes the vocal line. The singing won't embed itself in your tossing, turning head, but the dissembling, subtle beauty of the overall music will reward repeat listens, without exhausting itself. Q: So, why exactly should I give a shit? A: Jeez, who said anything about giving a shit? There's nothing groundbreaking here. Not even close. What Tram does well is synthesize the soothing, griefaddled pace of Mazzy Star with the melodic sensibilities of James' quieter songs, while flexing their own talent for arrangement and lowkey melody. For a four yearold band putting out a sophomore album, Tram displays a great deal of maturity and grace. So, if you happen to come by a copy of Frequently Asked Questions, you'll be glad you have it. If not, don't worry; it won't knock you out of \"the know.\" Q: What's the deal with the title? A: So glad you asked. Now I've got a cheap excuse to pull out my Paul Anderson quote:\"We had no previous experience with computerbased recording software and were faced with the daunting task of getting to grips with new technology; hence the ironic album title Frequently Asked Questions (for it seemed that we were spending our whole lives staring at instruction manuals). The title also seemed to tie in appropriately with the themes dealt with on the album.\" Q: I noticed trumpet, strings, and oboe. Did Tram play all the instruments? A: No, smart guy. Actually, a whopping eight additional musicians took time out of their busy schedules of recording commercial jingles and drinking away their sorrow to lay tracks down for a pittance. Even PJ Harvey collaborator John Parish was dragged in to produce \"Once I Was\" a Tim Buckley cover, and the only track not produced by Anderson and Nick Avery. Adding to the namedrop miasma, the Buckley track was recorded at the Cocteau Twins' September Sound studio. Which, in turn, sat on property owned by the Who's Pete Townshend. The studio was subsequently demolished to make room for highend apartments. No, it's true. Q: So, like, can I rock out to this? A: Yes, you and the tree sloth both. "}