{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8006/homepage_large.9911701a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Trans Am","title":"Extremixxx EP","text":" I liked Trans Am better when I was missing the point. While enjoying records like their selftitled debut and The Surveillance, I thought they were a good instrumental rock band with a love of vintage electronics and a good sense of humor. I knew there was something tongueincheek about them, obviously, but I always heard some genuine affection at the core of the music. It's all about being \"clever\" now, it seems, about loosening the ties to the 80s by sending up the decade's excesses. With TA, Trans Am became the new wave Sha Na Na. Things could change, though, and I hope they do. In the meantime, here's a sixtrack remix EP to remind us to look forward to the band's evolution. Extremixxx is the sort of EP that really should only be available on vinyl. With two versions of \"Cold War\" and three of \"Different Kind of Love\" (including one that's just the instrumental of the prior track's vocal mix), there's no way in hell you're going to want to put Extremixxx on in the car, on your walkman, or on your living room stereo. It's either a DJ tool or mixtape fodder, nothing more. Track by track, then. Busy Chicagoan Johnny Herndon works as A Grape Dope, turning in his \"Bombs and More Mix\" of \"Cold War\". He clips the sounds and adds a jerky, stop/start feel to the rhythm, turning the song into something closer to a breakdancing anthem. It's fair. Eastern Developments glitch artist Dabrye's remix of \"Infinite Wavelength\" shifts the hectic cheeseball synthpop of the original into a slow, slightly funky container brimming with robot soul, making the oily vocodered vocals the tune's center point. Trans Am engineer Jonathan K's take on \"Cold War\" is a bid for an electroclash DJ's crate that misses by a foot, with the beat made a little housier and the synths just a bit more goth. Kicking off the back half, The Automator adds the sort of syncopated hiphop beat he can program in his sleep to \"Different Kind of Love\" and little else. And then the EP closes with \"Different Kind of Love\" reworked by Prefuse 73, once as a vocal, and once as an instrumental. It's fitting that Scott Herren be the only person to feature his beat on its own, because it's by far the best one here, showing that he listened to plenty of Timbaland while internalizing all that mid90s Warp IDM. Of course, one good track in vocal and instrumental versions, and four others ranging from okay to terrible, doesn't make for a good remix EP, I'm afraid. It's not so bad if you consider how weak some of the original TA material is, but still. Very easy to sit this one out. "}