{"label":" Rephlex","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8009/homepage_large.72c51801.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Transllusion","title":"L.I.F.E.","text":" \"Electro\" is a slippery word. When affixed to the word \"clash,\" it's come to stand for a recent movement in electronic music that draws from the icy and removed synthpop sound of the 80s, strips the beats down, and turns the lyrical focus to the joy and loathing in decadent sex. Because \"electroclash\" is an unwieldy word, many have taken to shortening it to just plain \"electro.\" I find this abbreviation confusing, because the word \"electro\" has such specific connotations in my mind. To me, electro is an early strain of hiphop that used the stiff machine beats of Kraftwerk as a foundation for a new, scifi obsessed form of funk. Time and meanings change, though, and I'm trying to set aside my semantic biases and get with the program. Still, hearing this record by Transllusion, one half of Drexciya, got me thinking about the original electro and how it developed as a vehicle for two expressions. On the one end, dating from 1982, Afrika Bambaataa's \"Planet Rock\" is without question the electro classic of the era, a party jam through and through. This sound and vibe made its way down South and played a part in what came to be called Miami Bass. \"Planet Rock\" is the future as a hightech carnival. The other branch of electro was bound for a more desolate and isolated Northern climate. On their influential 1983 track \"Clear\", Detroit's Cybotron saw electro as a means for projecting a cold, depressing future where technology leads to alienation. \"Clear\" is clearly not celebration music, and this is the branch of electro that picked up some sounds and eventually morphed into ultraserious Detroit techno (Juan Atkins, who was half of Cybotron, was an originator of the Detroit sound). The wintry side of the place where electromeetstechno has been kept alive in Detroit by Drexciya, the mysterious duo comprised of the Gerald Donald and the late James Stinson (he died in September of this year). Ironically, the identities of Drexciya's members were revealed only shortly before Stinson passed away. For most of the group's life, it remained an anonymous outfit dedicated to producing paradoxically cold yet emotionally evocative music from the Detroit template. Drexciya side projects included The Other People Place and Transllusion. As electronic music goes, there's something oddly timeless about Transllusion. Certain aspects of the production sound quite current, while other bits are allude to the 80s. The synth patterns in \"Bump It\", for example, are very early videogame, but the thick bottom end seems of a more recent vintage. I have to say that of the Drexciyarelated material I've heard, L.I.F.E. seems especially grim and bleak, and the repetition, while central to the project's aesthetic, is wearying. It's certainly a good record that succeeds at what it sets out to do, but I expect that I won't find myself in the mood to listen too often. I hope not, anyway. Most of the tracks follow a similar template. The midtempo drum hits are ridged as drop forge steel, never deviating even slightly for the beat, never pausing for a fill, never laying out. Moving through and around the beats are all manner of synth squiggles that give some hint of the unpredictable nature of organic life. And the thread through it all is the deep and menacing bass tones that make sure the dark cloud never goes away. The contrast between the downright oppressive repetition of the drum machine and the looser, softer synth patches make me think of these tracks as a view of a factory floor. The steel crash of the factory machines are always there, but moving between the spaces are the people, flesh just barely visible beneath helmets and through gaps in their coveralls. There's humanity in Transllusion's music, but it takes a lot of effort and compassion to find it. "}