{"label":" Neurot","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8018/homepage_large.686f449b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Tribes of Neurot","title":"Adaptation and Survival: The Insect Project","text":" The author is dead! Or so a sect of critic types will tell you, and they may very well be correct. For at some point in the last couple of generations, you the reader, and the listener, and the citizen became the focus of the critical experience. Interaction, cooperation, and an overwhelming desire to place the epicenter of control (or at least an illusion of control) within the mind of you, the reader, has become paramount. Think of all the reviews you've read about how the music affects a particular reviewer: \"I envision fields of amber, and a sudden calm overtakes me it reminds me of my kindergarten class photo, documentary yet ultimately sentimental.\" And you have no idea what the music sounds like. But that's okay, at least you know that it had some kind of profound effect on the writer, and that's what good music is supposed to do, right? I mean, it's cool that someone can take a piece of music, and strip away all the packaging and context, and just let it transport (or transform) them. The experience is the key there. So, what if I told you the music described above was actually field recordings of insects, multiplied and manipulated to sound like a battlefield, or some kind of spacedout fizz generator? Tribes of Neurot practically demand that you, the listener, make your own judgement, because Adaptation and Survival: The Insect Project was made with interaction and listener choice in mind. The Californian outfit encourages listeners to play both of the discs in this set simultaneously (Zaireekastyle) on different players for \"further depth into the sound of insects.\" Neurot go so far as to give you a mission statement: \"The only limits are of your imagination and effort.\" The author is dead! Long live the new authors that means you and me. For their part, Tribes of Neurot have invested a few years into their experimentation and general strangeness. The outfit is made up of most of the members of the avant deathmetal band Neurosis (though, in keeping with the dead author motif, none are listed on the CD jacket). Neurosis specializes in extreme noise terror, by way of your workaday rock band instrumentation. Though Tribes tone down the violent outbursts, opting for dark ambience, they inhabit similarly doomgloomy realms. The two camps continue to exist concurrently, and have even breached the multiplay strategy before with Neurosis' 1999 release Times of Grace meant to be played alongside Tribes of Neurot's Grace. It sounds very compelling there's something inherently exciting about never really knowing what the music will sound like each time you play it. At the same time, the concept may be selfdefeating. In Tribes' case, their alien static symphony of bugs is probably going to sound close to a wall of noise for most folks no matter what combinations are playing though, all bets are off if you're high (seriously, it may take that for some people to get close to this stuff). Adaptation and Survival begs the question: what's better, a pristine recording of digitally enhanced bugs, or going outside in the summer and hearing real ones? At least Zaireeka had Wayne Coyne, who hasn't come anywhere near my backyard, as far as I know. So, it's a bit difficult to focus on these sounds. The first disc is comprised of mixes of a vinyl edition of this set, supposedly split into three separate records to mix and match as you will. \"High Mobility\" actually contains insect samples looped and processed to the point of making it seem like there is an actually tonality at work. A fuzzy drone colors the background of the track, and the buzzing of who knows what wingedbug pans across the speakers. \"Adaptability\" uses cricket sounds and some very creepy wingflapping samples, supporting more processed insect noise that sounds like a murky synth line. In fact, I counted no less than four different sounds of flying insects in this track. If you don't like flying bugs, it's probably best to steer clear of this release. The epic \"Metamorphosis\" begins with a low hum of flying insects en masse. This is what I imagine a plague of locusts might actually sound like the samples are so densely multiplied, the overall effect is not dissimilar to hearing a jet engine. Things take a turn for the disgusting, when what sounds like ants feeding on a decaying carcass works its way through the mix. You can imagine what kind of dualstereo nightmares Tribes of Neurot could cause you but remember, they only recorded the stuff and its up to you to completely gross yourself out! The second disc contains a mix of \"a single potential outcome\" of the various sounds from the original set. For sheer acidic haze, this is the disc to put on for company. The sounds, while still recognizable as insects, blend together to form a much more rootless horror. Suffice it to say that when locust plagues and frenzied ants are the closest points of reference (other than alien terror, that is), good times are not in order. Tribes of Neurot have produced an impressive document of studio wizardry and apparently a steadfast dedication to capturing the hidden sounds of bugs everywhereit's up to you and me to make something of it. Adaptation and Survival kills authors dead. "}