{"label":" Sanctuary","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8019/homepage_large.a0136127.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Tricky","title":"Vulnerable","text":" Earlier this month, I paused for a moment while noticing that Tricky's debut album, Maxinquaye, was released in 1995. The date didn't seem right. One reason was because Tricky's work with Massive Attack and his groundbreaking early singles predated the LP's release by two or three years; another is because it's still difficult to believe that he's been considered irrelevant for only about a mere four or five years. It's been an unfair fall, in some ways. That's not to say that paranoid ramblings about your record label or a trio of disappointing to disastrous albums (Angels with Dirty Faces, Juxtapose, and Blowback) aren't grounds for turning your back on an artist. But as one of the architects of a muchmaligned former \"now\" sound, the pressure on Tricky to stay ahead of the curve was perhaps always going to be an impossible burden, and so it seems that with every subsequent release, the shadow of Maxinquaye has loomed. The recent release of the Islandissued bestof comp, A Ruff Guide, is a reminder that at least the first two of Tricky's missteps have something worth salvaging. Yet with the release of Tricky's seventh album, Vulnerable, the Maxinquaye comparisons are perhaps apt. Tricky's latest record seems to celebrate his new label and locale, and his seemingly healthier outlook on life: Instead of wading in a swamp of paranoia and dread, he's stepping into the light with sunnier tones, brighter hues, lilting strings, and even some soothing melodies. Unfortunately, this figurative new start is also literally reminiscent of his stunning debut, even going as far as drafting in a female vocalist (Costanza) who can't help but remind listeners of Tricky's original muse, Martina TopleyBird. So after years of running into creative dead ends, Tricky seems as if he's retraced his steps. The retreat to his career starting line is more than a bit distracting.Vulnerable does begin by hitting a few promising notes. \"Stay\" has a galloping rhythm, dub undertones, and playful melody, and its boy/girl lyric makes effective use of the dual vocals. (Unfortunately, Tricky's rasp is featured on every track, sometimes to superfluous effect.) The second and third tracks, \"Antimatter\" and \"Ice Pick\", are even more encouraging. Each is a restrained nod to everyone's new favorite decade (that's the 80s) the former has both a curiously bubbly vocal hook and melody that wouldn't be out of place on a Sugababes or Girls Aloud record, and the latter has a propulsive hook. Another keeper, \"Car Crash\", is delicate, atmospheric, and the best showcase for Costanza's graceful voice, although it's just a Zero 7 remix away from lapsing into chillout compilation territory. From there, things go downhill quickly. The newwave tangents are continued on Tricky's requisite covers, this time of XTC's \"Dear God\" and The Cure's \"The Love Cats\" [sic], neither of which is worth a second listen. Tricky's own compositions on the remainder of the record are even more problematic. A trio of stabs at highoctane guitar tracks \"How High\", \"Where I'm From\", and \"Moody\" are clumsy and canned, a common result when riffs and power chords are shunted off to the side of a track rather than supplying the meat of a song. (And, unfortunately, those who merely dabble in guitars for those reasons seem to universally make them sound hamfisted and bury them in the mix.) By the end of the album, Tricky returns to acting on his worst impulses, stumbling through hackneyed sonics and wincing lyrics. \"Wait for God\" is a dull and simplistic antiChristian commentary with lines like \"I wait for God and it's very hard.\" Album closer \"Search, Search, Survive\" poorly nicks Duran Duran's \"Save a Prayer\" and passes off \"You're lucky alive/ You could be Aaliyah\" as sentiment. At one point in that track, Costanza reads an Italian translation of the song's lyric. If this is supposed to be a new beginning for Tricky, at least that implies an acknowledgment of past sins. A full exorcism of his defensive inclinations and the Maxinquaye blueprint would be a welcome next step but less than a decade after his startling debut, it's hard to imagine that this oncebulletproof talent has the goods to offer more than the ghosts of his own past. "}