{"label":" Teenbeat","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13474/homepage_large.e7674d2c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"True Love Always","title":"Clouds","text":" According to popular legend, the Commodores chose their name by tossing a dictionary on the floor and choosing the first word they pointed to on the open page. I guess it worked out okay for them, but the perils of this approach are readily apparent: they came within inches of naming themselves the Commodes, and even closer to labeling themselves the Commodities. This is just an offhanded guess, but I'm thinking the three guys in True Love Always got the pedestrian title of their latest album (their fifth since 1997) using the same method. I base that assumption on the total inaccuracy of the title: if any thought went into it, it was certainly ironic, and that just doesn't seem to be their style. In reality, there's not a cloud in sight on this album, and as a matter of fact, irony is equally absent. The bossainflected pop these guys churn out is so breezy, it'll blow over any objects in the room not tightly secured, and if you hear a single distorted guitar anywhere on this record, you heard more than I did. Guitarist/vocalist John Lindaman seems to value clarity in all things, keeping his electric firmly rooted in a clean, jazzy tone, and singing in an even, warm tenor that sounds a lot like James Taylor with wider nasal passages. Drummer Matt Datesman and bassist Tony Zanella give things a minimal push with a series of easy rhythms, and generally manage to keep the backgrounds interesting, if harmless. This formula results in a bag of songs ranging from honeysoaked to just sugary; not a wide range, but when the songs are stuffed with moments like the chorus of the opener \\x93Give Me the Clouds\\x94 where Lindaman and backing vocalist Evelyn Hurley paste huge harmonies all over an adhesive flytrap of a melody you don't so much mind. \\x93Let the Rain Blow Ix94 even has a nice, understated guitar solo that would have fit in pretty well on A Hard Day's Night. \\x93For You Alone\\x94 features a fantastic, rapidfire melody, but it's marred somewhat by the fact that Lindaman treats it as a duet with Hurley, and Hurley, while great on backup, doesn't quite cut it out in front. Problems also arise on songs like \\x93Summer Books\\x94, where the band's sense of economy gets them in trouble, resulting in an overly repetitive second half, with the lines \\x93You, like summer books, don't kiss and tell/ And I'd be lost without you,\\x94 repeated dozens of times. \\x93Peel Away\\x94 exaggerates that problem greatly, adopting what I suppose you could call a more experimental structure, with a vastly more fractured and a section where Lindaman layers his vocals, creating a repeated pattern of the partial phrase \\x93why don't\\x94 with a slower melody over it. It's conceptually very interesting, but somewhat annoying in execution. Still, points for branching out. Ultimately, I'm not really sure whether to celebrate or lament True Love Always for their complete lack of guile. On one hand, 36 minutes of pure silver lining can get a little tiresome, but it's also nice to see a band so direct and unassuming in this age of forced irony. Clouds is certainly pleasant listening, stuffed with good melodies and some accomplished musicianship, but it's also not likely to hook you back into a lot of repeated listens, given the way it lays all its cards out right away. A desultory toss of Webster's to the floor sums it up nicely: quaint. If that's your bag, have at it. "}