{"label":" Big Dada","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8043/homepage_large.096e9362.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"TTC","title":"Batards Sensibles","text":" Do yourself a favor, and don't talk to any French people about TTC. Talk to them about how much your country sucks or how great they are. They're good at that. After listening to Batards Sensibles, I really wanted to go the extra mile for all you future hatemailers out there. The massive Euroclub beats and skanky charisma of Teki Latex, Tido Berman, and Cuizinier motivated me to do something special. I'm super lazy though, so that extra mile turned out to be the hundred yards to my neighbor's, a friendly young Parisian who'd agreed to some lyric translation in exchange for pretty much nothing. See, I took Latin in high school, and that shit is worthless. I could have used pro bono two sentences ago, and it would have been the lone justification for three years of study. Just as well because, from what the neighbor told me, TTC's lyrical content is no loftier than a 50 Cent guest spot. Plenty of clubfriendly nonsense about smacking people, bitches being hoes, etc, But every time she translated something, it was accompanied by a blushing giggle, the same kind of giggle that American women give in response to Ludacris or Cam'ron. It's the \"you nasty\" giggle, and it told me more about TTC's modus operandi (yes!) than any translation ever would. TTC are poseurs in the best of ways, mack thespians with a penchant for steady slobbin' on your earlobe. They are as willfully lecherous as Serge G. at his best, and their producers, Tacteel and Para One, match the MC's cartoon cadences with the ohsoFrench art of sardonic electrofunk, with DJ Orgasmic the Toxicologist (I know) on the cut. Much like their successful compatriots, Daft Punk, TTC sound like they're having loads of laughs at our expense. Songs go from acidsquelched hyperbolic gangsterism (\"Du Sang Sur Le Dancefloor\") to corny 1980s bounce that could easily have played during any number of Rusty's hijinks in European Vacation (\"Les Chants Des Hommes\"). The title track's video better involve leatherclad werewolves or someone's not trying very hard. The production pulls as much from indigenous club music as it does from crunk or the more progressive of America's underground crews APC comes to mind yet, American influence is tangential. Batards Sensibles is brethren to London's grime scene in its use of Stateside hiphop as an inspiration, not a template. It draws from a more mainstream pool, which immediately makes it more accessible than a lot of grime, but the formula is the same. Its undeniable Frenchness is its greatest asset, providing an alternative to its American counterpart where previous Franco hiphop like MC Solaar and Supreme NTM were novel regurgitations. The allure is not only in the production, though. Teki, Tido, and Cuizinier are as captivating and entertaining as any, despite the language barrier. Tido is nonchalant, laying up in the cut, running things. The boyish Cuizinier postures as lewd seducer, green gangster, and club ruler from song to song, the transparency of his schtick as endearing as those moments on hiphop records when someone has his baby say \"fuck you, motherfucker.\" And then there's Teki. Oh, sweet Teki. Sounding like an exiled Muppet, his voice is so surly and indignant that you just want to fill him full of beer and watch him ruin the party. Crews need distinct personalities, and there's no deficiency of character in any of these three. Possibly in an attempt to fulfill their label's Englishlanguage quotient, TTC brings in L.A. natives Busdriver and Radioinactive to spit approximately a billion words apiece on \"Latest Dance Craze\". If you're still intent on deciphering the lyrics, don't eat for a few hours, go to TTC's website, and have Google translate it for you. The not eating is so you don't puke from laughing when you witness the brilliance. \"All the shecats of the whores are moist,\" apparently. Of course they are, Teki Latex. Don't forget to \"give opera hats to their bottoms,\" playboy. "}