{"label":" Epitaph","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8049/homepage_large.8209ed4b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Turbonegro","title":"Scandinavian Leather","text":" I'm not in the habit of handing out free passes. Screeching Weasel earned forgiveness for their Ramones revue because it was always respectful, light, and most importantly, they never cashed in. Turbonegro, a once curious, once hard rocking and always ironic gaggle of Norwegian punks, are now operating in contrast to once credible aims: they're out to profit from the sheer laziness of their audience. They exist because kids aren't doing their homework, aren't searching out sounds to satisfy or spark their rebellion, instead waiting for radio and MTV to explain things for them. Listening to Turbonegro's 2003 reunion album, Scandinavian Leather, you need only head as far back as Europe's The Final Countdown to find as potent a rock and roll fix. Obviously, you've got to check any concern for originality or respectability at the door: this is a goof, going so far as to yank the riff from the Dandy Warhols' Gaptastic \"Bohemian Like You\" (itself a Stones rip) for \"Train of the Flesh\", which also contains the inspired chorus, \"All aboard/ I need a fucking orgasm!\" \"I Want It All\" bangs a gong, but it's \"Sell Your Body (To The Night)\" that most brilliantly illuminates the brick wall every \"ironic\" retro metal act is barreling toward. In the space of this childish fourminute wank session, Turbonegro offer muted chugging and sluggish tempos on par with The Scorpions, squeezing out pearls of cockrock wisdom like, \"Hey boy/ You want to get ahead/ You want to get some head.\" You read it here: in 2003, these guys think a song called \"Fuck the World\" (not a Queers cover) is shocking enough to stick on a shirt as their slogan; meanwhile, another tee features a picture of Osama bin Laden. Yeah, dude, I felt such burning nostalgia while poring over this ballsout punk rock imagery I almost bought one of those $150 denim jackets they're shilling on their website. For their admitted historical importance which I'll get to they never took their principle dare far enough. This band is called Turbonigger. Afraid of such irresponsibility afraid people wouldn't get it, and would brand them racists their early 90s singles were amorphously branded TRBNGR, a menacing, undeclared abbreviation (especially when taking into account the hideous album art it emblazoned). More to the point, founding member Thomas Seltzer once said \"a Turbonegro is a large, wellequipped, armed black male in a fast car, out for vengeance. We are his prophets.\" Now, I've never met a black man who'd differentiate much between being called a \"nigger\" and a \"negro,\" but if you don't know the history of nationalism in Norway and especially Sweden or if you don't own a few Ultima Thule records you may not be aware that Turbonegro's intent was to rail against prevalent racism and isolationism by aligning with blacks in some tenuous, imaginary way. Early on, these guys could be lauded for changing the atmosphere in their home country, for saying fuck you to all the right people. While their undeniably true punk roots paid early dividends in cool opening for heroes like Poison Idea, Bad Brains and the Ramones on lateera tours milking the European market Turbonegro started striking glam poses as either poverty or boredom prompted them to polish their sloppy sound. It worked on the excellent Ass Cobra LP in 1996 and the comparably fiery Apocalypse Dudes visualize the Village People doing airtight, revvedup covers from Van Halen but most of the world had no idea the record existed until their new American parents reissued it early in 2003. Whatever success Turbonegro are enjoying following The Hives' American breakthrough follows years of countless makeovers, selfstyling themselves as gutterpunk deathmetal, then homocore, and now Spinal Tap: the chorus of \"Gimme Some\" goes, \"You want some fun/ So give me all your money.\" They could have as easily covered the Tap's \"Give Me Some Money\" and made a greater impact; this way, they just look clueless. Before anyone had heard of Burning Heart Records, Thomas Seltzer was releasing hardcore on his own label Straitjacket; with Turbonegro he helped set the stage for the ragnarock revival that brought us Refused and later The Hives. But Scandinavian Leather is stifling in its overkill, lobbing clichéd irony and exhausted gags that will bore anyone remotely in touch with even the most popular rock music of the last twenty years. The humor underneath cockrock has nothing to do with its sexist, stupid lyrics and deluded abandon, it's the utter honesty with which those balding dopes bought into the idea that such wallpaper had any weight. Whatever ludicrous past Scandinavian Leather aims to lampoon, Turbonegro aren't dumb enough to deliver. "}