{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8058/homepage_large.e3064860.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Mick Turner","title":"Moth","text":" Say what you will about Pavement's noncommittal live performances; they always brought great opening acts with them. Before Malky's alkies semirocked the joint, concertgoers were treated to such stimuli as Rollerskate Skinny, Shudder to Think, David Kilgour, David Lowery's oompah outfit FSK, and prior to the release of the Australian band's debut Dirty Three. Warren Ellis would saw at his violin, gazing into his amp as if it were a mirror he was trying to smash with telekinesis. Jim White's drums served as a texture rather than a timekeeper, swishy and shimmying one minute, then pronouncing an onguard pomp the next. I've watched the man drop a stick and continue unfazed, staring ahead like a piece of David Lynchian atmosphurniture listed in the endcredits as Weird Glaring Man. Guitarist Mick Turner, a beanstalky James Dean who appeared to be petting his hollowbodied Gretsch, conveyed the band's blue cool. After Dirty Three's raw outpouring, Pavement's profile was reduced to that of the smirking DJs they once were. Over several albums Dirty Three perfected their style, which was to lilt a bit, only to erupt into violent übercrescendos that called to mind an Itzhak Perlman score for Spielberg's holocaust vigilante epic Schindler's Pissed. Members of the band became a kind of Funk Brothers for indie rock's dark horsepeople, backing such nihiluminaries as Nick Cave, Cat Power, Will Oldham and (Smog). On Dirty Three records, Ellis was always the madman scampering around Turner's garden. When that garden is undisturbed, though, it's a beautiful thing, as Turner has proven on releases with White as Tren Brothers, with Oldham (reciting excerpts from Rabindranath Tagore's Gitanjali) as Marquis de Tren, with an allstar cast as Boxhead Ensemble, and on three solo fulllengths, the newest of which is Moth. If Moth's nineteen untitled parts comprise a sequel to Marlan Rosa, that album's cresting ship is marooned somewhere, and its captain has carved himself out a domicile; barking dogs on \"Part 1\" help to ground the album. Rosa's violins and drums must have never washed ashore, but the island's other inhabitant, multiinstrumentalist (and Simon Joyner/Edith Frost/Pinetop Seven sideman) Mike Krassner, more than makes up for their absence with plaintive piano tones that would melt even David Grubbs' icy fingers. And how to describe Turner's playing? I don't know, \"heroinflamenco?\" He strikes chords with a kind of rolling, prophetic brush. He plucks strings as if he's confidently repairing or cleaning them with nervous tools. Yet there's something \"organic\" about his leapfrogging tranquilly up the fretboard's stream. His arpeggios sound like they're stumbling home from exlovers' porches. Middle Eastern influences are detectable, but clouded with purposeful imprecisions. Here and there the songs seem composed, but Turner's apparently reading from Polaroids instead of sheet music. The pieces' only flaw is that they're often abbreviated, as if Turner fliply stopped the tape (though the same technique wasn't so problematic on Turner's more wholly fragmented solo debut Tren Phantasma).Moth is meditative, in a trance sense you can't concentrate to it, since its odd timing sidesteps willfulness, and its organs may leave you humming along like some guru's brainspanked disciple. (Turner's word \"Tren\" might even be a shorthand for Zen trance, since \"Zance\" sounds stupid.) This album's baroque implosions prefigure what would happen if someone let the hot air out of Sigur Rós, and its dilapidated majesty suggests that it'd have made a fine soundtrack for the earthier moments in that popular, unflinchingly homoerotic trilogy about the gay wizard and the elves fighting to keep jewelry out of the penistowers. (One of the Latin words for \"ring,\" after all, is rectum.) The listener won't mind Moth's retreads of other Turner progressions. The listener will be treated to unpedaled acoustic pieces as well as backward loops and dubs as fragile as a tapestry of overlaid spiderwebs. The listener will envision Nick Drake warming up for \"Black Eyed Dog.\" The listener will feel like the dentist's assistant just adjusted the sweet nitrous knob. The listener will think a bunch of abstract hokum gag, I seriously wrote in my notes that \"Part 12 traces the savage architecture of the snottrails generated by a weeping deadbeat dad.\" The listener will forget how funny it is that web searches for Mick Turner result in lists of sites that reference Mick Jagger and Tina Turner (and that Bill \"Smog\" Callahan's webpresence is outsized by that of Bill Callahan the Oakland Raiders coach). The listener will be reminded, even by Moth's nineteen exhalations, of how Dirty Three flies in the face of all the instrumental trignometrists: Their emotiveness makes them a rock band. "}