{"label":" Tappersize","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8077/homepage_large.a7bbdf2b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Dark","artist":"Twin Atlas","title":"Kitchen U.S.A.","text":" Some albums have to grow on you. Is it a cliché because it's true or is it true because it's a cliché? Don't ask me, man, I didn't come up with it. All I know is that I waited a long, long time for The Twin Atlas' second fulllength, Kitchen U.S.A., to stand out from the slew of crap that usually resides at the bottom of my \"tobereviewed\" stack. But, on what seemed like the infinith listen, the band's homebrewed yet refined folkrock sound something like if the Elephant 6 explosion had happened in Wales instead of the American South finally hit. The Twin Atlas is, as you might assume from the name, a duo Sean Byrne, who drums for both Lenola and Mazarin, and Lucas Zaleski and one of many bands wrestling with the specter of multicity collaboration. But if their fecundity is any measure, they're handling it pretty well. There are 22 tracks on this album, and 26 on their outofprint debut, 2000's The Philadelphia Parking Authority Must Die, representing a nearly unbroken streak of recording from January 1999 to March of last year. These are short songs, but they do have a great thematic consistency. Phrases, both musical and lyrical, repeat throughout, and some tracks are permutations of earlier ones, lending the whole thing a loose, concept album feel without actually taking that grandiose, pretentious step. The end result is that, by the end of the record, you feel an instant familiarity with the music. Nice. But while any dart thrown randomly at the Kitchen U.S.A. could strike a potential college radio hit, there are definite highs and lows. One of the standouts is \"When the Dawn Survives,\" a song that takes the most simplistic organ hook imaginable and layers it with guitars, mandolins, maracas, and some genuinely moving and evocative lyrical muscle. But if you don't laugh out loud at the lofi stylistic parroting of everyone's (least) favorite pompous Irish rockers on \"Where the Feet Have No Name,\" I'll give you a buck. Intentional or not, people don't need any more instrumental U2 in their lives. Still, the gorgeous harmonies on Kitchen U.S.A., if that's your bag, are truly the centerpiece here, and they generally deliver the goods. Sean and Lucas' voices blend perfectly, complementing each other like a true classic pop pairing. It's easy like Sunday morning. Just give it time. "}