{"label":" Tappersize","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8079/homepage_large.e9196e3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Twin Atlas","title":"Bring Along the Weather","text":" Suddenly, I've got a lot of Lenola in my life. It seems only yesterday that they dropped an ambitious, doubledisc album on me, and now Lenola vocalist/multiinstrumentalist Sean Byrne hits me with yet another disc from his Twin Atlas side project. It's the duo's fifth album since 2000, if you include the asyet unreleased Inside the Skate Scandal. The other Twin is Lucas Zaleski, and with their powers combined, the two make some pretty enjoyable music. Understandably, with Byrne handling lots of vocals here, it comes off something like Lenola lite, which, as it turns out, is actually kind of a good thing. See, Byrne's songwriting thrives when it's stripped of Lenola's busy psychedelic accompaniment and just allowed to present itself to you. Lenola's swirl can be enthralling, but sometimes it distracts from the melodies, and here, those melodies are laid out on top of laidback, sparse guitars, slow tempos, and gently glowing keyboards. Perhaps even more than Lenola, The Twin Atlas evoke the fluorescent folk of The Kinsgbury Manx, and the close harmonies smeared up and down this record drive the comparison home even further. The lilting acoustic strum and bold vocals of opener \"Sun Touches Down\" immediately set you down in a very comfortable place, but things really pick up on the song that follows, the excellent \"Show Me All\". Drum programming mixes with live drumming and subdued lead guitar, building to a fantastically layered chorus in which lead and background vocals weave in a classic callandresponse. Speaking in terms of pure sonics, though, The Twin Atlas have roughly the same problem as recent Lenola: homogeneity. The album's sonic character is so consistent that things bleed together at times, particularly when you get a run of similarly paced songs in the middle of the record. However, with the heavy production emphasis on melody, tracks like \"Beautiful Surprise\" can't help but differentiate themselves from the pack. Another part of what makes Bring Along the Weather work so well is its brevity at 39 minutes and 14 songs, it's shorter than any of the duo's previous releases (their debut, The Philadelphia Parking Authority Must Die, had 26 songs on it), and the discretion shows in the consistent quality of the material. Indeed, the band themselves remark that they implemented a stricter editing process while putting this album together \"y'know, make it more like a proper album, less like a bloated timecapsule,\" as they put it on their website. That approach seems to have paid off nicely, as The Twin Atlas have slipped a quietly ingratiating mickey to us with Bring Along the Weather, a fine companion piece to the headier sounds of Lenola. "}