{"label":" Bip Hop","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8081/homepage_large.390acd94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Twine","title":"Recorder","text":" Abstract electronic music is exciting in part because it sounds like it comes from its own world. There is no material reference point for something like Oval's Szenariodisk or Autechre's EP7. No object and no living thing can make these sounds; they are instead birthed from the unknowable guts of a cold, calculating machine. It is these limitless sonic possibilities that have driven composers to electronic music since before John Cage was calling his early experiments \"Imaginary Landscapes.\" But there's also something to be said for electronic music that remains grounded, emotionally accessible, and clearly of this earth. And it's in this class of electronic records that Twine's Recorder falls. Rather than sounding like the outgrowth of endless experiment, Recorder sounds like it was laid out carefully before the first mouse had been clicked, the whole thing designed to realize very specific musical goals. This is no pileup of exhaustively rendered Max/MSP patches. Despite the fact that the album is composed on computer, Recorder sounds orchestral, with dense layers of sound reverberating in a defined space. It's the anythinggoes spirit of abstract IDM applied to sweeping dramatic gestures, a laptop version of the soundtrack to Apocalypse Now. And at this moment in the music's development, it sounds refreshing. Strummed electric guitar is the first sound heard on \"None Some Silver,\" setting a dark emotional tone that Recorder beautifully sustains. The chords are distantly spaghetti western, but the menace and tension behind them feel like more than just a cinematic homage, possibly aided by the electronic noise that bubbles beneath. Eventually, the synthetic whine envelops the track completely, subsuming the familiar instrument in a cloud of harsh noise. The following \"Cign\" begins with a whistling tone that leads to tribal beats that pingpong between the speakers, rising and falling along with the restless drones behind the beats. This track showcases the electronic/organic nature of Recorder, as the percussion, so clearly synthetic, conversely seems beaten out by a drum corps. The feeling of dread conveyed by \"Cign\" is incredibly vivid. A much slower emotional burn is evident on \"Fine Music.\" Here, Twine seem to be coming from a place similar to Stars of the Lid circa The Ballasted Orchestra, combined with Labradford's respect for the power of a stalking bass drum. \"Curved\" is another drone piece in a similar vein, but the elongated tones are a bit less dreary, and are constantly being interrupted by percussive whooshes of sound that sound like they're caroming off the walls of a cavern. While maintaining a similar atmosphere, \"Player Piano\" delves into collage, with randomly chopped piano notes that fall into place in a pretty melody bumping against sampled voice, odd instrumental snippets and assorted clicks and pops. None of the raw material on Recorder is particularly new, and there's nothing to convey on paper what makes this record so good. It simply achieves exactly what it set out to: 56 minutes of carefully assembled texture meant to convey feelings of loneliness, isolation, fear and tension. It's dark electronic music sticky with human fingerprints. "}