{"label":" Hi-N-Dry","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8083/homepage_large.88849bf6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"Twinemen","title":"Twinemen","text":" The rest of the country doesn't understand what Morphine meant in Boston. To the rest of the world, they were the noirfed band with the smoky baritone sax and massive bass that leant mood to TV crime shows and that movie about the guy who sleeps with his mom. They had a couple of minor hits, but were always known more for their sound than their singles Mark Sandman's basso profundo and rumbling twostring bass guitar over Dana Colley's reeds and the coolly tense drumming of Billy Conway. Sandman died unexpectedly on stage of a heart attack in 1999, and he's still an important figure here. The city of Cambridge even dedicated a square to him next to the rock clubs a stunning, and let's face it, bizarre honor. His bandmates also kept up his legacy, first with the Orchestra Morphine project which revived their material, and now with Twinemen. This new band isn't trapped in the shadow of Morphine; they embrace it, doing everything but wearing Sandman's black shirts and donning his sunglasses. The cover art of their debut uses his cartoon drawings, which he called \"twinemen,\" and they recorded the album in Morphine's HiNDry studio. Huskyvoiced singer Laurie Sargent has a rough tone that sinks to the level of her sidemen, lending these songs similar arrangements to the ones she gave Orchestra Morphine: drums, sax, vocals, and some 'low guitar.' It's the same moody, leadguitarfree sound Morphine had mastered. Of course, there are also many changes, and the biggest is Sargent. She leans seductively on the line between raunchy and sexy, with lyrics about \"fucking all day,\" or her \"chose sauvage\" (that's \"wild thing\" in English). She takes charge instantly with the opener, \"Spinner,\" a catchy tune with the kind of deepplowing chorus we'd been missing postMorphine; the guest musicians on keys and bass fill out the sound around the raw meat of Colley's sax. But on the next tune, \"Little by Little,\" they slow down the tempo, strip down the music, and just let Sargent work the mic. Conway ever so lightly plucks on a guitar while Sargent lays down a sultry, loungelike mood, sounding looser and more expressively sexy than on the louder tracks. There's just one problem: beneath the atmosphere, Twinemen don't have the songs. After three strong tracks there's a run of tunes that simply lack any hooks or strong choruses. \"Watch You Fall\" and \"Learn to Fly\" feel like sketches, and \"Harper and the Midget\" only edges above those because of its freak storyline. The band throws some guitars on \"Ronnie Johnson,\" but Sargent's desperate vocals make the song; after that, \"Who's Gonna Sing\" wraps the album with a slim and pretty tune, Conway taking the vocals, as Colley does on a few other tracks. Conway, though, sounds far less like Mark Sandman than Colley does on \"Golden Hour\" maybe it's the ironyfree tone in his voice. It's unfair to compare Twinemen to Morphine again and again, but they invite it: they can't let go of that slim palette, that blackandwhite mood. But at least they're expanding it. Every track shows a new direction they could take, new sounds to play with, and emotions that go beyond the snarky, articulate cool we've already heard from them. And who knows, if they finetune the writing, Twinemen could become the band that Morphine needed to grow into. "}