{"label":" Rotters Golf Club","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8090/homepage_large.86e59034.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dan Lett","artist":"Two Lone Swordsmen","title":"Peppered with Spastic Magic","text":" Never let the truth get in the way of a good story. That's an old maxim in which Two Lone Swordsmen's Andrew Weatherall and Keith Tenniswood are clearly wellversed, because for eight years, they've been generating solid remixes from even the most paltry of source material. Fortunately, the dependable East London duo has also been invited to tinker with some welloiled engines in their day. These sonic alchemists have reprogrammed a wealth of original music by everyone from Paul Weller to David Holmes pausing along the way to craft some of Warp Records' most consistently satisfying work. If only for convenience's sake, the new remix collection Peppered With Spastic Magic is an essential selection, one that should please even the likes of unlikely collaborators Starsailor, who, right about now, should probably be looking to the abundance of TLS collectivists to balance their own fading sales. The more likely TLS allies in Slam have a pretty good hold on effective dance floor mechanics, and Weatherall and Tenniswood capitalize on that expertise with a riotous yet faithful vocal mix of \"Visions\". Although that track is a fairly recognizable regurgitation, it's nestled among an album's worth of wayward hijackings. Covering nearly a decade's worth of tracks, the album acts as a crosssection of TLS's history. \"Put Your Arms Around Me (Electric for Bird Mix)\" consumes Texas in a constellation of delicate eeriness and techno deconstruction that was the hallmark of TLS's 2000 release Tiny Reminders. Howie B's \"Angels Go Bald Too\" is fed through the same strange machinery that imbued 1998's Stay Down with quirky melancholia as darkly alien as it is irrepressibly seductive. Long time Weatherall favorites Lali Puna are given room to breathe within an intensely warm and reflective rendering of \"NinComPop\", revealing a resilient tenderness scattered throughout its chilly beats. It's a shame that only 13 tracks were selected to represent Two Lone Swordsmen's rich remix legacy particularly when only half of them are of high quality. For instance, a relatively weak and dated Stereo MCs rehash is included at the expense of any number of better works could have been chosen instead to rub shoulders with the elating electro treatment of Primal Scream's \"Stuka\". Still, there is a staggeringly high level of quality that infests just about everything TLS touch. Their sound is as synonymous with technical prowess as it is with instinctive innovation, and Peppered with Spastic Magic retains a contemporaneous air despite its timeline, one which is an eon in terms of modern electronic music. And if TLS's imminent From the Double Gone Chapel is as moldbreaking and transitional as it's rumored to be, Peppered will be a worthy summary of Messrs. Weatherall and Tenniswood Mk. I, the moment before they turn their revisionist talents to rewriting their own legacy. "}