{"label":" Fueled by Ramen","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/817/homepage_large.13eb6be1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Camilo Arturo Leslie","artist":"Blueline Medic","title":"The Apology Wars","text":" Koalas and the boomerang. Paul Hogan and the Crocodile Hunter. Untold zillions of boisterous, brewswilling, hosteljumping backpackers. Oh, and, uh, 'roos, or whatever. You can add newcomers Blueline Medic to that hallowed list of exports from the island continent of Australia. With a name like Blueline Medic, you might be asking yourself how much your copayment will be, but no, no, they're not an insurance company or even an HMO. In the great tradition of Aussie guitar noise, they're a capital R, capital B, Rock Band. Buzzsaw distortion, thoughtful lyrics, more power chords than you can reasonably be asked to deal with, and a vocalist that's equal parts J. Robbins, Bad Religion's Greg Graffin, and supersensitivo and Hessianlastnamed Blake Schwarzenbach are Blueline Medic's most salient features. Actually, the universalsounding vocals are decent enough I'm not ripping on Donnie Dureau for having an unoriginal voice. In fact, it's the perfect voice for the band's sound. J. Robbins is not only a convenient reference point for describing Dureau's voice, but the affable and hookconjuring mind behind Jawbox and Burning Airlines also manned the nobs and untangled patch chords on The Apology Wars. But unlike some of his other semirecent production efforts (Promise Ring, Jets to Brazil), Blueline Medic's songs have enough teeth to showcase the man's production skills, and conversely, his able hands add contours to songs that might have otherwise sounded stale and quotidian. And now, friends, the trackbytrack: Things get off on the wrong foot, unfortunately. \"Cathedral\" (Dureau's a big Raymond Carver fan) is lyrically engaging, but the melody especially for the allimportant opening track sucks. The vocal phrases are too wordy, strungtogether, and shapeless to redeem the punkbyrote song. \"Ever the Lawn\" benefits from the contrast with its lackluster predecessor, and bubbles over with quirk, similar to much of the material off Burning Airline's debut, 1999's Mission: Control! \"Making the Nouveau Riche\" is a straight ahead, almost corny poppunk song about leading an unconventional lifestyle, but more specifically, about being in a band. It works, getting by on sheer kinetic energy and memorably offkilter lyrics: \"I'm without a zack/ A truth/ A coin, a kopeck or an elusive brass razoo.\" \"At Least We Had the War\" is the fourth and finest track on the album. It's also guaranteed to make you do an auditory double take as you wonder how the fuck Morrissey took over your CD player; the intro and ending to the song are as good a Smiths imitation as there ever was. The meat of the song is murder sweeping, semiepic pop with betterthanaverage melodies boasting smooth transitions between the tonally different Smithssounding sections and the main body. \"Not Interested\" is likewise heavily Smithsinformed in certain parts and smartpunk in others. The welltitled \"Shuffle and Scrape\" sounds like something off some Golden Era of Dischord release, very much in the spirit of Jawbox's seminal album, Novelty. \"Somnambulist\" displays Shaun Lohoar's simply tasteful drumming, while also incorporating decorative chiming sounds to great effect, one of the rare departures from standard instrumentation. \"Up Against the Fault,\" on the other hand, is simply a good example of the band's flair for the anthemic. There's nothing particularly mindblowing about The Apology Wars, but the warmth and comfort of a new and eminently listenable rock band is noteworthy on its own. That the unimpeachably solid songs are also graced by thoughtful lyrics and underlined by obvious enthusiasm is reason to keep an eye on the Melbournebased fourpiece. "}