{"label":" Action Driver","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8107/homepage_large.9b285a0f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Michael Idov","artist":"Thunderbirds Are Now!","title":"Doctor, Lawyer, Indian Chief","text":" How do you know a group of musicians have violently overestimated their sense of humor? Well, they could form a band and call it Thunderbirds Are Now!; they could record an album and call it Doctor, Lawyer, Indian Chief; they could open said album with a 19second skit entitled \"KGB Phone Sexxx\", with a girl named Jane speaking what is purported to be Russian; and/or they could spend more time composing song titles than songs themselves, coming up with nonhilarities like \"Not Witherspoon, but Silverstone\" and \"When It Comes to Elements, Hydrogen Is Titz\". The songs are spazpunk shot through with bouncy synths. The musicians wear their attention deficit on their sleeves, picking up and discarding riffs and rhythms as they please. Ironically, they end up sounding monotonous: almost every song crescendos into the same jackrabbit epiphany, teeters for a while at 200+ bpm, and topples. I'm aware of a certain nuspaz scene out there, and some of it sounds pretty potent. Sick Lipstick, for instance, make sillysqually thrash in time signatures even they don't know, and An Albatross are to Zappa what grappa is to wine (which is to say, a terse essence). At best, this sort of stuff has an ability to leave you dizzy and panting unsure what the fuck's just happened. Thunderbirds on this record, at least are not nearly unhinged enough to pull this off; far from dangerous, they simply come across as unpleasantly mathy. Here's what they don't know about themselves: they're actually unintentionally a fantastic new wave band stuck in a twitching spazcore body. Disregard the timechange madness and consider their Action Driver labelmates (which include unapologetic new wavers Radio Berlin), and Thunderbirds almost begin to sound different by proxy. \"Pink Motorcycle Helmet\" could, for all intents and purposes, be the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, down to resident screamer Ryan Allen's voice. Elsewhere, \"Party A.R.M.\" plays it relatively straight for 2:08, and \"Who Wants to Fight?\" is 70s glam strut ripped apart and randomly stapled back together. Every other guitar and synthline these guys toss about so nonchalantly would be enough to build a single around, and if it's not ADD that's keeping Thunderbirds from doing just that, I guess it's the misplaced integrity or sheer delight in musicianship. I never thought I would emphatically advice a punk band to dumb it down, but Thunderbirds Are Now! could use a lobotomy, a Zen retreat, a majorlabel deal, or Meg White on drums. "}