{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8114/homepage_large.425b2797.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Tussle","title":"Kling Klang","text":" Dub is its own defense. Say it's boring, no melody, too long, doesn't really go anywhere, how come no sound's coming out my left speaker, and dude man you've totally missed the point. After Tubs etc., snatched dub for dub, no longer toasted but doing its own thing stylized, atmospheric, art, and shit later acts from Neu! to Maurizio to Tortoise to Prefuse 73 could get away with songs that, at their core, are incomplete. Try your hardest, but so you know: can't knock the Tussle. Half done, Kling Klang's not half bad. The band has one guy steady on the traps and two more on panknockers, so they can't help but stumble upon the occasional sweet beat. Big pressure is on the bass, since it provides Tussle's sole groove and melody. That's balls on the scale like few out there, but the kid rarely misfires. If anything, he's too good, the licks like cute Florida blondes: sorta indistinguishable. Turns out personality does count for something, and campjobs \"Ghost Barber\" and \"Moon Tempo\" win for Kling Klang's most lovable nerds. While the rest of Tussle basslines get stuck straddling groove and hook pretty safely, the line on \"Ghost Barber\" alternates duties: verse is pretty, chorus is rhythmic. The song has some tension; it almost sounds like a song. \"Moon Tempo\" makes the same distinction without even modulating. \"Eye Contact\" is still cooler than both, and probably better, expect the track came out two fucking years ago, then again on last year's Don't Stop EP. Maybe this is an East Coast thing, but \"Three's a charm\" is just something married people say when they're figuring out how many babies to have. Recall the panknockers of yestergraph: when the bass goes faceless on Kling Klang, these guys pick up the slack. \"Disco D'Oro\" taps the fractal noise vein Dom spotted in recent Brooklyn noise records such as Black Dice's Creature Comforts and Excepter's KA, but Tussle beat both out with fourfour on top and more noise to boot. This is a patient man's game, Kling Klang, unclear at all times whether it's worth playing the regulation forty minutes, but another so you know: the last minute of last song \"Tight Jeans\" is motorik bliss and the best fake Neu! you'll hear this year. "}