{"label":" Leaf","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8116/homepage_large.9e1ebe60.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Triosk","title":"Moment Returns","text":" Last year, Australian trio Triosk met German laptop technician Jan Jelinek for an album of nuskool electrojazz ambience. It was an interesting record that ultimately showed Jelinek as something of a jazzdub vintner: Ideally, clouds of cymbal splashes and piano overtones should have at least a decade to mellow inside dusty vinyl grooves before he works his magic on them preferably stored improperly in a horizontal stack in a neglected corner of an old record shop. But the real problem may have been that, as listeners unfamiliar with Triosk, we tended to approach their 1+3+1 collaboration as a Jelinek record, which wasn't quite right. Jelinek was but \\xBC of a crosscontinental quartet and his contributions suffered from high expectations. Now with Moment Returns a Triosk album with a couple of actual Jelinek elements and a number of bandcreated treatments inspired by his methods it's possible to hear what Triosk and Jelinek were going for in a new light. The important thing to note about Triosk is that they are truly a postmodern jazz group inspired by recorded documents of performance and driven by \"feel\" rather than tradition. Triosk is best understood as \"jazz\" with quotes, as they use the instrumentation and approach of a classic jazz trio (mostly piano/bass/drums, with some Fender Rhodes and vibes) to explore moods rather than the implications of chord changes. The approach is exceedingly lyrical; pianist Adrian Klumpes has found a path to the \"sparkling water cascading down from some clear waterfall\" sound Miles Davis so admired in Bill Evans' playing, and their electronic treatments add a balanced undercurrent of noise to keep the music from being too sweet. The music on Moment Returns was composed around the same time as the material generated for 1+3+1, and two tracks here feature Jelinek contributions. The nineminute \"I Am a Beautiful and Unique Snowflake\" could be considered the record's centerpiece, and it encapsulates everything interesting about Triosk. Moving between a spacious Satielike minimalism, where a halting fournote tune nervously takes shape above meandering bass and drums and a fountain of Jelinek's vinyl crackle, \"I Am a Beautiful and Unique Snowflake\" gushes forth in a loud payoff of heavy block chords and huge splashes of ride cymbal. \"Chrono\" begins with a classic Jelinek loop of slinky acoustic bass with a protective coating of digital noise before Klumpes' descending piano lines pull the tune into the clear melodic light. Triosk is not shy about identifying Jelinek as a major inspiration, so it's no surprise that the electronic flavoring the band adds on its own (all three members are credited with \"loops\") occasionally bears his stamp. The needle fuzz that accompanies the opening theme of \"ReIgnite\" certainly sounds familiar, giving the noir ballad which makes interesting use of what sounds like a synthesized harp an extra dose of mystery. \"Awake in the Deep\" opens with twonote bass pattern and an eerie drone of distant feedback, but there's also the minutely detailed sound of a manual turntable that's been left unattended to fill the considerable space. The synthesized drones the band plays along to on \"Love Chariot\" and \"Tomorrowtoday Part 1\" relate more to the older ambient tradition of Eno, but in every case, Triosk's electroacoustic blend remains coherent and inspired. All told, Moment Returns is a surprisingly effective record that tops their Jelinek collaboration, with the surface prettiness to fill background space, and enough detail and depth to survive close scrutiny. "}