{"label":" No Sides","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8121/homepage_large.af3d79cd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Johnny Loftus","artist":"Terror at the Opera","title":"Snake Bird Blue","text":" The artwork accompanying Terror at the Opera's Snake Bird Blue depicts Faith Gazic and Gretchen Gonzales as porcelain'd socialites, alike in seafoam and hosiery, happily lost in a cavernous, crumbling greystone palace. They're ladies who lunch removed from their element and shuttered mysteriously inside the abandoned building. The visual carries over to the music: We imagine the two at first woozy from gin, fear and Percocets, rightfully concerned about their surroundings. But then, in exploring the ghostly ballrooms, winding turrets and reverberant marble hallways, they find a fabulous and varied array of accordions, toy pianos, electric guitars and Moogs; and together, they begin to experiment, drawing on wavering folk melodies and snatches of memory from fairy tales and faraway childhood. And Snake Blue Bird begins. Gazic's accordion and brassy vocal flutter guides this Opera, but Gonzales' spidery, economic guitar work is equally essential to its peculiarly spun web. Touches of synth atmosphere, tinny percussion (in chintzy electronic and quiet tambourine varieties) and toy piano also diversify the mix, shading the duo's vocal sketches, tricks on the mind, and persistent air of human frailty. \"I had snakes and moths in my tummy,\" Gazic and Gonzales sing in the aptly named \"Snakes and Moths\". \"And blue jays eat butterflies.\" Another voice mumbles as they harmonize, like a chattering poltergeist being suffocated by a throw pillow. It's the only accompaniment to the vocal, but a perfect one, as it makes the song at once unsettling and pretty, like all the best fairy tales. An accordion takes the rhythm for \"Lovely Day\" as Gonzales' guitar chops out a tiny jangle, while \"Aminor\" is a damaged shanty, and \"Daystar\"'s vague gypsy sway keeps Gazic's bizarre couplets tidily afloat. It's fascinating music, like attending a recital of child bands performing tentative Velvet Underground and Flaming Lips covers, and it also suggests those halcyon days of lofi, when cassettemakers amused themselves creating pop from the flimsiest of elements. But that selfamusement can frustrate, too, as a track like \"Johnny Appleseed\" wavers and drifts to no real resolution. Thankfully, Gazic and Gonzales keep most of Snake Bird Blue on the twisting track, never resorting to masturbatory experimentalism. Or, they say what they mean and mean what they say. The Gonzalespenned \"Let's Pretend\" references her work with Slumber Party, while the creaky attic electronics of \"Build Your House\" and \"Sailor Says Goodbye\"'s dreamy toy piano reflection are slight, but highly effective shifts in the album's ruling sonic paradigm. The dead mannequins loved the show, clapping their clipon limbs against neutered trunks. Bats shuddered on their crown molding perch, loosing plaster dust from the ballroom ceiling. Their highback chairs encircled by instruments and glass shards, the women stared at the pale, tender patches of skin remaining where their high society jewelry had once gleamed coldly. The finery had been flung down the palace's decrepit elevator shaft, rendered needless in this curiouser and curiouser wonderland of strange, pretty music. "}