{"label":" Fat Possum","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8126/homepage_large.dfa18d38.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Thee Shams","title":"Please Yourself","text":" Thee Shams may hail from Cincinnati, Ohio, but they sound like they're from much further South, as befits a band signed to Oxford, Mississippi's newblues label Fat Possum. The band channel the ghosts of early 70sera Lynyrd Skynyrd (two of the four are even brothers), but they're also schooled in 60s Southern pop like The Gants and The Hombres. On their debut, Please Yourself, they never sound quite as vital as DriveBy Truckers (or even Lucero); they're not as much fun as The Hives, nor as derivative as Jet; and they don't overplay their hand like Kings of Leon (although they have similarly timecapsule haircuts). What Thee Shams do is effectively bridge the gap between the recent garagerock revival and the even more recent Southern rock revival, revealing how interlocked the two genres are. On the other hand, Thee Shams don't bring much new to either revival besides the juxtaposition of the two. Instead of reviving or revising a dated style in a new setting, Thee Shams are content to build new songs that sound just like old songs. In other words, they're living in the past and don't think much of the present. But unlike, say, Beachwood Sparks, Thee Shams display a little more scope and ambitious diversity in their musical mimicry. On \"Want You So Bad\", they sound like the house band at some Jackson biker bar circa 1966. They trudge through dark swamps on \"She's Been Around\" and coast along a mean highway on \"Come Down Again\". Guitarists/vocalists/brothers Zachary and Andrew Gabbard alternately channel nonSouthern Man Neil Young and Ronnie van Zant, and Andrew quotes a grindhouse organ riff from quasinamesakes Sam the Sham & The Pharaohs on the opener \"On My Mind\". As a result (and as a whole), Please Yourself sounds diverse, agile in its canny approximation of so many styles and persuasive in its assumption that these styles are more or less the same, even if they more or less aren't. Even so, like irresponsible time travelers, they've unintentionally copped a 1960s misogyny, if a gentler strain. The album cover features a topless woman posing on a bed, her breasts bare but her face/identity awkwardly cropped out. Coverart nudity is neither new nor illegitimate nor even unwelcome; it's the album title that makes it overtly even ironically pornographic. The phrase \"Please Yourself\" is an invitation to both masturbation and objectification of this literally faceless woman. It's an indierock cocktail napkin. Of course, album covers are one thing, lyrics another. On \"Love Me All the Time\", Zachary Gabbard blatantly infantilizes the object of his affection: \"You say you need it/ But you don't need anything/ You're just a child.\" It's not a darkly sexual comeon like those of fellow Cincinnati Greg Dulli, but a strange and creepy demeanor that pervades most of Please Yourself. This condescension is never meanspirited or selfrighteous, just goofily unselfaware. Nevertheless, the women on Please Yourself all play degraded muses, just as faceless as the cover model: they're present only to provide the inspiration for the songs, which are more about the band's nostalgic obsession than anything else. Taking no emotional risks whatsoever, Please Yourself is at worst a cold exercise in problematic nostalgia and at best a promising band's naïve debut. "}