{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8137/homepage_large.edbc8086.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"31Knots","title":"Talk Like Blood","text":" Raise your hand if you've ever thumbwrestled. Wow, everyone except you guys from the sawmill? Great. Take a smoke break. The rest of you might recall a little something known as \"the sneaky finger.\" The sneaky finger is a real wild card. No one's quite sure how close to legal it actually is, but for my money the sneaky finger can't close the deal the index finger slips out of the grip, pulls down the opposing thumb just long enough to implement the official thumbpin. 31Knots's third LP, Talk Like Blood, has a sneaky finger of its own. You're distracted by the thumb, i.e. the fatbottomed emoprog hooks, the twisted metal carcasses thundering down. But it's the little things that sneak out and grab you before the next cascade of unapologetically overwrought vocals polishes you off. It's the blocks of percussive static that the guitars slither around; the malfunctioning recordings of chamber music; the channelswitching effective glissando sawing the beginning of \"Intuition Imperfected\"; the highly pressurized drumming and compressed riffs wheezing to life on \"Chain Reaction\". But I'm not kidding about the dominant vocals Joe Haege has a huge voice and he's not afraid to let it all hang out. That's going to be a dealbreaker for some no matter how awesomely deformed yet melodic the licks are. Sometimes, like when Haege spleens \"Hell hath no fury like me!\" before the ripped throb of \"Thousand Wars\" drops in, or the spoken word rant at the beginning of the industrial musicbox \"City of Dust\", it's too much.Talk Like Blood is different than what we've previously heard from 31Knots, in ways desirable and less so their earlier work (specifically thinking of It Was High Time to Escape) hugged a tight border between spacious, intricately polished guitar rock, and chorusbusting emo, but now they've pushed further in both directions. So while the musical side of Talk Like Blood presents a more detailed field than ever before, the vocals and some of their attendant musical dynamics are flatter. Previously those hearttugging emo hooks were the sneaky finger and the smart, propulsive musical compositions were the thumb, and if they haven't switched places yet, they're trending that way. I'm fine with it for now, but I hope it doesn't go much further.  "}