{"label":" Sure Shot","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8139/homepage_large.a99459e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Theodore Unit","title":"718","text":" For Ghostface and his Theodore Unit, 718 a collection of outtakes from this year's The Pretty Toney Album is all about freedom: The freedom to host as many guest MCs as possible, to experiment with samples that could have seemed too outlandish on Pretty Toney, to be brash and angry and emotionally honest, and to call out \"faggot niggas\" at every turn. That The Pretty Toney Album has criminally underperformed seems to defeat the commercial mandate for an outtakes collection, but the bevy of surplus material is surprisingly consistent; Ghostface's first entry under the Theodore Unit moniker serves as a nice, if unnecessary, accessory to its criminally unsuccessful counterpart.718 compiles recent mixtape tracks that didn't make the cut for Pretty Toney and a handful of previously unreleased odds and ends. But the continuity, strength of production, and sharpness of the record's guest lineup suggests a good deal of forethought. A track like \"Guerilla Hood\", for instance, which would have sat favorably in the Pretty Toney tracklist, was probably reserved with a side project in mind. \"Punch In Punch Out\" is a fairly straightforward battlerhymecumtestament to black market business operations. Pejoratives like Trife's: \"You's a hasbeen/ Always will, always have been/ That garbage you pumpin'/ You need to save it for the trash bin,\" roam over a brooding beat underpinned by a single sustained synth note. \"88 Freestyle\" features some nimble verses but the song is sullied by a particularly garish sample: A wailing, vaguely Middle Eastern guitar bend that feels awkwardly wedged in. Lest we forget this isn't a Ghostface solo effort, \"The Drummer\" brings a cast to make Ocean's Eleven soil its pants. On previous outings, such generosity has been an invitation to unwelcome distractions, but here the MCs' interplay is arch, transitioning quickly from voice to voice over a breathy, crackling beat. Even Method Man drops in for a droopy verse. Despite this being a decidedly populist affair, the tawdry, blaxploitation production and the ticaddled vehemence of Ghostface's verses are intact. But beyond its reliably scruffy sound, the sampling on 718 is with a few catchy, wellplaced exceptions chintzy. \"Mama Can You Hear Me\" thrives off the nervous trills of an overwrought orchpop ballad, while \"Smith Brothers\" uses a stinging string line and cops Queen in its bawdy chorus: A serpentine verse fit to a familiar cadence before the telltale, \"Tell 'em, 'We will, we will rock you...pop you.'\" Such witticisms pervade the album but, on the whole, 718 is more introspective than previous Ghostface releases. Whereas in the past Ghostface has been preoccupied with gregarious, almost parodically violent lyrics, 718's \"Mama Can You Hear Me\" and \"Who Are We\" show a touching vulnerability. On the former, Solomon Childs levels charged laments (\"This the projects/ Summertime ain't comin'\") in a huge baritone swollen with echo. Of course, amid this panoply of competent lyricists, Ghostface still shines. But his closest competitor remains Trife, whose verses, delivered in a thick, cocky cadence that sounds naturally double tracked, are among 718's finest. It's hard to imagine why Trife doesn't yet have a solo album to his credit, but his spots on Supreme Clientele, Pretty Toney, and now 718 have given him a fantastic endorsement. Though undoubtedly strong, 718 is a pale standin for a proper Ghostface fulllength. That's because it's a different record, more varied, more scattershot. Even so, Ghostface chose the right men to surround himself with. Commercially feasible or not, 718 features enough stylish production and idiosyncratic rapping to service Ghostface's reputation while providing the Theodore Unit stable with a cornerstone for its own. "}