{"label":" Mego","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8140/homepage_large.75100714.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Yasunao Tone / Florian Hecker","title":"Palimpsest","text":" Imagine a poem that cannot be written, read, or spoken by humans. The piece can only be heard it can mean everything or absolutely nothing. No words or anything recognizable as human language is sounded. Only machines can create and recite the poem. It can be absolute liberation or total repression.Fluxus veteran and avantgarde maverick Yasunao Tone took an anthology of 8th century Japanese poems and attempted to find their hidden meanings. His product has the qualities mentioned above. Tone scanned the Chinese characters on the Man'yoshu prints through a computer and played back the audible verses mining the raw data of sounds heard beneath the text. The words are completely lost. The result sounds like a video arcade heard through tinnitusdamaged ears, as his 2003 eponymous album attests. Yet, such mechanized art still retains a human touch the loose handwritings keep a loose rhythm in the chaos. The music is also very slapstick for stumbling across the digital static and misinformation, just like the glitches heard when Tone famously battered CDs for his 1997 landmark piece, Solo For Wounded CD. One memory to take to your grave could be five minutes of that performance the twittering and skittering of CD players gasping for air is pure malevolence.On Palimpsest, Austrian laptopnoisenik Florian Hecker mutates Tone's \"Man'Yo\" pieces to decent results. He doesn't remix as much as magnifies every bit of data by 10,000x, uncovering microorganisms that dwell in the poem's fibers and ink. In the exhaustive and sometimes aimless 28minute title track, he finds two voices in the noise, and divides them to each stereo channel; one muttering to itself while the other panics. Hecker's touch is familiar as his scrapes, pings, and crashes of white noise all flicker about like lawn gnats or a copy of Pac Man for the Atari 2600 dipped in CocaCola acid. He still keeps his funk, recalling his unforgettable \"BSF(0)Tyk 5\", where he had a Culture Club studio musician fall dead on his keytar.The rest of Palimpsest are various revisions of Tone's other \"Man'Yo\" excavations. They're mostly homogenous and bring little to the table. \"Man'Yo #3A~37 / 750A54 Zero Crossings [extended mix II]\" opens with what resembles the steeldrum roll of 50 Cent's \"P.I.M.P.\" Hecker then adds free jazzstyle interplay between the arguing voices, where one moment features a quick pause and then a scream for dear life. His fiveminute edit is slightly superior for its brevity that keeps the most memorable moments in line. Closer \"4\" simply timestretches a rotorouter buzz that hovers like a ghetto bird searching an empty weed patch. It's quite poetic, actually. "}