{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8141/homepage_large.875fb2f3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Triola","title":"Im Funftonraum","text":" The use of software to build sound from scratch has resulted in music where timbre is the greatest field for expression. We know electronic producers by their signature sounds, the way we know singers by their voices or songwriters by their changes. While this has sometimes led to a concern with slight variation in search of novelty or what some describe as \"fussiness,\" artists like Triola's Jörg Burger work in a completely electronic realm yet focus on typically musical concerns such as rhythm, melody, and development rather than the latest processing tweaks. Burger has been at the center of the fertile Cologne music scene since the early 90s, recording under aliases such as The Modernist and Bionaut in addition to a number of collaborations. While Burger released a lot of interesting tracks in a decade that saw electronic music go in a million different directions, he returns consistently to his straightforward and affecting sound the bright synth pads, gentle rhythms, and dubby production flourishes of early ambient house.Im Funftonraum is Burger's first album as Triola, after releasing a number of tracks under the name on Kompakt's revered Pop Ambient compilations. While those oneoffs were excursions in beatless ambient, the tracks on Im Funftonraum have a relaxedbutsteady pulse of electronic percussion, suggesting chilledout pop instrumentals. Anyone who knows Burger/Ink's Las Vegas, his collaboration with Wolfgang Voigt, will recognize the sound and construction on display here. The return to those sounds Las Vegas was recorded 10 years ago hints at Burger's disinterest in fashion. \"Leuchtturm\" opens the album on a note of gauzy bliss, serving perhaps as a leadin from the fuzzy dronescapes of Pop Ambient. The next track, \"Neuland\", lays out the ground rules for Im Funftonraum, with a cheery whistle of synth, a bouncy keyboard line, and plenty of space for the light to shine through. \"Unland\" adds just a hint of menace, with an echoing sample of buzzing guitar string laid atop the sort of nourish bassline Jan Hammer liked to work into the background of \"Miami Vice\". \"Traumsch\\x9An\" is a bit tougher than the rest, with a punchy electro bass and another couple dozen extra bpms to contend with, but the bulk of Im Funftonraum is placid, tuneful, and understated. With 10 tracks motoring by in under 50 minutes, everything about the album seems controlled and precise. Burger has no need for reinvention or paradigm shifts; to him, creating excellent music is all that matters. "}