{"label":" Psych-o-Path","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8144/homepage_large.2e7dbb5a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Terrestrial Tones","title":"Blasted","text":" Terrestrial Tones are a Brooklyn duo comprised of Animal Collective's Dave Porter (aka Avey Tare) and Black Dice's Eric Copeland. On Blasted, these roomies pull from a sonic palette that wholly evokes their nom de feedback and fashion a 33minute subterranean landscape of gargling mud baths inhabited by the robotic chirps of rusted aviary grubs. The album displays less joyful humanity/beauty than Animal Collective's BeachBoy campfire jams and swivels less raucously than early day Black Dice; pinpointing an ambient equator, it loosely resembles Danse Manatee dry humping Beaches & Canyons. Looking outside the band's apartment complex, they're closest to the criminally forgotten Vancouver noise crew Pork Queen well, if those Canadians reformed to cover swatches of Throbbing Gristle sauerkraut, extracting porno evil, and presenting preternatural industrial howl as pedestrian video game music. OK, it doesn't really sound that cool; much of Blasted conjures wordy imagery but feels sluggish, lacking the liveliness of Porter/Copeland's main projects. Opener \"Gorilla In The Woods\" bequeaths a drowning sailor's glug to guitarlike creaking, depthburied entropic repetitions, sprung rhythm, and reverb katydid swirls. If commissioned by Nintendo, imagine digital grubs eating onesandzeros roots. The track ends with humanoid bird caws and laughter of its participants, hosing off the anonymity of what came before it. \"Our Single\" is drumpad plus buried vocals, and it equals an autoasphyxiated Xiu Xiu suffocating inside a house of cellophane. \"West Indian Day Parade\" samples the event that gave it a name, but the low hum of celebratory language and spicy vegetable patties are interspliced with a marching band jump cut into a typewriting Burroughs fusion. \"Heavy Angel\"'s rumbling percussion has the same soft corners as \"Gorilla in the Woods\" and really, this is all very gentle, somehow submerged and cushioned, a game of padded Pong played by termites. In addition to the titled compositions, there are a handful of untitled maggot granules begging listeners to loop/expand elsewhere: clock chiming and/or unwinding, loose cables spelling \"SOS\", a sanddollar concertina stuck in the receding ocean jetsam. But let's put it in perspective: Terrestrial Tones is often referred to in reviews as a \"super group\" but although Porter and Copeland are in popular bands, they're also roommates; and as any musician who's lived with other musicians knows, each music house supports about 30,000 bands depending on the night and who's around. So instead of naively reading Blasted as a meeting of indierock power brokers, it helps to strip away the distance and funnel the sounds through the framework of two friends getting together in the comfort of their own home and putting some fairly modest abstractions to tape. Still, despite its lowkey nature, Blasted is certainly PsychoPath's highest profile album to date, though the New York City label's released stronger work including two Space Is No Place Big Apple noise samplers and the shimmering, often painfully beautiful stringed buzzquake of SF trio Axolotl's eponymous debut. Especially impressive is Mouthus' lockedgroove of a selftitled debut, which along with Loam, a mesmerizing followup just released by Ecstatic Peace!, establishes the scruffy NYC duo as the most combustible newschool heirs to Dead C's freerange softblack feedback (as reinvigorated by Lighting Bolt's punky brokedrum tribalism). But whatever, if it takes Terrestrial Tones' middling underwater cricket opera to put PsychoPath on the map then Copeland and Porter should rest well knowing they've transcended the skeletal patchiness of this fun but undistinguished offering. "}