{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8154/homepage_large.b766407a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tosca","title":"J.A.C.","text":" My personal history with Richard Dorfmeister and Rupert Hurber's Tosca project shows the enduring strength of strong first impressions. I was a Kruder & Dorfmeister fan but somehow didn't get around to hearing Tosca's 1997 debut Opera until early '99. Opera's opener \"Fuck Dub Part 1 + 2\" immediately struck me as the best thing K or D had ever released, and even now I can't think of another track that so successfully weds the slowburn funk rhythms of \"golden age\" hiphop with the disorienting production tricks of dub. \"Fuck Dub\" to me was the ultimate expression of the weededout aesthetic those in the Kruder & Dorfmeister orbit cultivated (hydroponically, of course). That the rest of the album was a mess basically a couple of great singles interspersed with an amalgamation of halfbaked grooves, ambient drones, and crude recordings of old black guys talking the kind of jive German DJs find cool only added to my enjoyment. This sloppy handling of talent went down easy for a guy who stood ready to defend the genius of Mark's Keyboard Repair. Tosca cleaned up right quick, though. Suzuki (2000) polished the rough edges of the debut and was recognized as the perfect accompaniment to the turnofthemillennium retail experience. No Gap manager was ever fired for throwing Suzuki on the store PA, which shouldn't take away from the fact that Tosca does crisp, catchy downtempo better than almost anybody (it's all in the bassline, you see). 2003's Dehli9 mixed things up a little by introducing samba and vocals but it looked as though the loose, weird Tosca of the first album was probably gone forever. Now we have the fourth album. There's not much to report on the weird/novelty front, but Tosca remains in fine form. It's uncanny how just how much mileage these guys get from small, easy gestures, like the simple bass riff that drives the opening headnodder \"Rondo Acapricio\". On the one hand it sounds borrowed, something you've heard a million times before in some overplayed rare groove classic. But it's also a signature sound, identifiable as Tosca and relentlessly catchy. Throughout the record Tosca employ guest stars of various styles and tongues (more than half the tracks have vocals) but it all fits easily into their highly refined world. Egyptborn Parisian Samia Farah sassily lilts her way through the electrococktail number \"Heidi Bruehl\", Chris Eckman from The Walkabouts evokes the glamorous highcontrast noir of Chris Isaak as he halfsings on \"John Lee Huber\", and \"Damentag\" is perfectly frothy glitter disco. The bass throughout is astonishingly deep and clear, and for the first time in my reviewing career I feel compelled to give a shoutout to the mastering engineer. Not all the songs work. \"The Big Sleep\" with its vibrato guitars and horns has a neoroadhouse vibe but the vocals by Austrian rocker Graf Hadik sound like tossedoff space filler. Still, the good far outweighs the bad. J.A.C. is ultimately a simple record covering wellworn territory that is no less engaging for its familiarity. While it sadly does not return to the unpredictability and high highs of Opera, this is probably the best thing Tosca has released otherwise. If you're the type of person who values things like consistency and high production values this is the Tosca record to get. "}