{"label":" Asian Man","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8164/homepage_large.d4647ca2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"10 in the Swear Jar","title":"Accordion Solo!","text":" Because this record sports wacky titles and Asian Man Records' Tao of Pepsi logo, you might assume that Ten in the Swear Jar (or XITSJ, if you please) is a bitchin' skapunk combo. The found audio that opens the disc seems to confirm this suspicion, folding every offensive gay stereotype into one lisping soliloquy. This is unfortunate, since, unless Asian Man is wise enough to release the album with a sticker reading \"featuring Xiu Xiu's Jamie Stewart,\" a large portion of its target audience might miss out. XITSJ's existence (around the turn of the millennium) was brief, but they managed to record enough material for this 22track précis. Accordion Solo! collects the bulk of XITSJ's debut LP, My Very Private Map, the followup EP Inside the Computer Are All of My Feelings, the unreleased Eat Death Orphans!, and a handful of live tracks. In short, this is a musthave for Xiu Xiu fans while it's naturally less developed, it contains plenty of winning experimentation and choleric melody; more importantly, it's a digest, albeit a slightly inchoate one, of the techniques Stewart is perfecting with Xiu Xiu: Here's a portrait of the mannered provocateur as questing manqué. Xiu Xiu's silvery guitars and murmurtocaterwaul vocals are predicted on \"Hot Karl\"; the regal synth line on \"San Jose Fight Song\" sound like lateDismemberment Plan but foreshadows the digital sculptures of recent Xiu Xiu; and La Foret's clattery dirges can easily be traced back to XITSJ tracks like \"Gauntlet of Thor the Destroyer\" and \"When You Write\". But the biggest hook for collectors will be the early versions of Xiu Xiu tracks: \"I Love the Valley\", which became a fan favorite when it appeared on Fabulous Muscles as \"I Luv the Valley OH!\", appears in studio and live versions. This starker rendering keeps the guitar line and the lyrics, but finds Stewart's voice clambering between emphatic and tremulous passages, and replaces the vigorous lead melody with loopy, sliding synths. Happily, it includes the terse scream that pinions the middle, and drops in a jackbooted synth line that strikes with goosebumpy force. There's also an almost industrial version of A Promise's \"Sad Pony Guerilla Girl\" (here called \"Sad Girl\") and a wistful take on Fag Patrol's \"Helsabot\".  Usually, this is where the disclaimer goes \"only recommended to diehard fans.\" But Accordion Solo! is the rare earlycareer document that works as a standalone record. One gets the sense that Stewart had yet to develop the confidence to be as melodramatic as he'd like (he even sings in a quite unaffected, lovely voice on several tracks), and Xiu Xiu detractors might find this preferable to the more realized recent work, while for neophytes, it will provide a valuable foothold on Stewart's daunting, alien terrain.  "}