{"label":" Western Vinyl","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8165/homepage_large.a124a0e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tren Brothers","title":"The Swimmer EP","text":" At this point the Dirty Three are perhaps more interesting when pulled apart. The music violinist Warren Ellis, guitarist Mick Turner, and drummer Jim White make together is not only immediately recognizable as a sound, it's also a persistent exploration of very specific emotional terrain. So while \"Dirty Three\" is clear shorthand for tightly circumscribed set of musical values, the members' other projects retain a certain flexibility. Turner and White periodically work together as Tren Brothers, with Turner adding flourishes of melodica to fill in chords while his guitar lines meander. That last word is important. Tren Brother pieces, though airy and spacious and generally short, are not economical. The spark driving this music is intuition and process is paramount. Mick Turner, like a bat searching for food by sending out a variably pitched scale ultrasonic tones, gradually teases out melody by unwinding jittery arpeggios to see which ones stick. White is his ultimate foil, with his astonishingly free and original approach to drums wherein actual timekeeping is far down the list of priorities. This concise record was released as part of Western Vinyl's Portrait Series. Each of its four tracks is accompanied on CD by a video, all of which consist of timelapse shots of Mick Turner creating a painting (including the sleeve art). Turner and White as ever seem inspired by restrictions, reaching their greatest heights on the repetitive vamps of the title track and \"Crow #3\". On the former White flails away, trying like hell to bash his way out of the song's structure, while Turner lewdly fondles his instrument and keeps the strings ringing. \"Crow #3\" inches along to that offkilter lurch these guys made famous, the ultimate soundtrack to a blinddrunk walk home alone beneath a starlit sky. Welcome swells of melodica add that extra pinch of yearning.The Swimmer is good stuff all around, but there's something missing. Secretly Canadian released a Tren Brothers 7inch in 1998 that happens to contain my barnone favorite slice of D3related music on the Bside, the endlessly climbing twochord epic \"Kit's Choice\". At such a moment the searching quality in their approach leads to a moment of real ecstasy. The Swimmer never quite gets to that sublime place these guys sometime stumble upon. "}