{"label":" Smalltown Supersound","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8176/homepage_large.c1e38b0c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mia Lily Clarke","artist":"Toy","title":"Toy","text":" Considering that Toy craft music that sounds like an imaginative childhood soundtrack, it's apt that they claim to have met in the Casio keyboard department on the fifth floor of London's premier toyshop, Hamleys. This curiously humorous and bold debut album from UK native Alisdair Stirling and Bergenbased composer/producer Jorgen Traeen conjures up images of rickety funfair rides, bustling amusement arcades, and the familiar, tinny spark of early 90s Super Mario bonus levels. Although occasionally congealing into a molassesthick clog of processed beats and frivolous superflouites, for the most part Toy retains a magical charm. The variety of animated textures and samples sound like a dusting of icing sugar over what would otherwise be little more than an oddly infectious foray into lofi techno. As their name implies, Toy tend to create their music using instruments specifically designed for children. That these seemingly \"naïve\" or \"primitive\" sounding materials are being employed by two widely respected musicians Traeen is the guy behind Sir Dupermann and runs one of Norway's best recording studios; Stirling plays in the Bergen collective House of Hiss and Sensible Twins really makes this record work. By approaching what could be seen as a limited selection of instruments to make their soundscapes, Stirling and Traeen are encouraged to use their musical initiative to wring all potential out of them. And they do. On tracks such as \"Realistic Martian Landing Set\", happygolucky beats mix with the abrupt fuzz of distorted Casio bleeps and heavier piano tones to form distinctively bizarre trails of sounds rich with visual imagery. It sounds like the soundtrack to a Bmovie scifi flick. There are also some especially effective moments, such as the addition of toy xylophones and reverb at the track's close, which leaves a glistening flicker of notes that sound like ice spilling over marble slabs. Not all of Toy's influences are woven from childhood knickknacks, however. There are also strong echoes of Japanese electronica like Cornelius and Zongamin, the atmospheric, bleeding dub of Silver Apples, and even the scuffling, muscular rhythmic tension of groups like Tussle. Although Traeen and Stirling's creations cast a loose net in terms of musical variety and ideas, their sound is very specific and unlikely to appeal to a wide audience. Toy's characteristically playful melodies could be interpreted as a whim in danger of turning into a one trick pony. But like many ambitious and eccentric projects, one is left with the feeling that this is unique enough to carry them into further fields of experimentation. "}