{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8181/homepage_large.72c422b4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"They Shoot Horses Don't They?","title":"Boo Hoo Hoo Boo","text":" The proliferation of \"wolf\" bands in the aughties has been described often enough for the riff to attain the narrative polish of an old standup routine; it might as well be included in Blogger's startup template. As this meme tips toward cliché, might a paradigm shift be on the horizon? It's too early to call 2006 the Year of the Horse, but if it proves true, then Band of Horses will be remembered as the band that defined \"horse\" music as opposed to \"wolf\" music. Putting aside the Superwolfs and Patrick Wolfs of the world, wolf music is malevolent; it darts and lunges, beadyeyed and razortoothed. By contrast, horse music, as exemplified by Band of Horses, is noble and graceful, with the potential to restore to indie music an equilibrium reviled by conniving wolves. But this prospective equine aesthetic falters before it even breaks a trot: They Shoot Horses Don't They are wolves in horse's clothing. Boo Hoo Hoo Boo consistently subjugates the song to unconvincing primitivism. This Vancouverbased octet is one of those bands that can take a little bit of everything twitchy mariachi rhythms, bombastic klezmer horns, bigtop pageantry and founditem drumlines, cabaretpunk vocals, and guitarrock snippets and turn it into a whole lot of not much. Boo Hoo Hoo Boo is deliberately enervating and wolfishly provocative, but doesn't offer enough substance to compensate for the jangled nerves. TSHDT's ace in the hole is the brass section, which manages to be giddy, magisterial and catchy all at once, and the songs on which the horns take centerstage are the best of the bunch. On \"Lowlife\", they lean into a mighty swing sturdy enough to hold up the weight of the spleeny vocals, and on \"Apple\", they sear an imposing melody across what would otherwise be another tepid Birthday Party encomium. For a music with lyrics like \"I'm gonna form a new religion/ Living in the woods and eating bugs\", the album seems awfully civilized individual parts that aspire to a state of chaos fall in orderly rank and file, each clearly discernible, and no palpable sense of danger or abandon ever resolves. The broken typewriter rhythms and rubbery bass tones of \"Emptyhead\" have the potential to be compelling, but unfurl too rigidly to scan as more than vertices on a grid. The MarkE.Smithasdrawlingcowboy mien of \"Three\" seems to strive toward corniness, and succeeds. But to what end? Intentionally corny is still corny. The woozy guitar gallop, squiggly horns, and incantatory vocals of \"Hiccup\" are not without interest, but as a chorus of screams evokes a more obvious take on \"Grass\", it's hard not to feel like you're drinking the purple stuff to Animal Collective's Sunny D. I think TSHDT would be a blast to see live, but in recorded format, they're hedging their bets an album that found them either really surrendering to musical anarchy or writing the pop songs that Boo Hoo Hoo Boo implies they could write would serve them better.  "}