{"label":" Southern","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8198/homepage_large.e3fa0728.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Ui","title":"Answers","text":" If rock bands are tight nuclear families, bass players perfectly embody flippant, middlekid disregard. Check the bassist as a perennial Jan Brady: habitually overlooked, occasionally neglected, and usually crouched humbly behind a black Marshall stack, looking bored and/or distracted while Howling Singer and Shredding Guitarist blindly lick up every last gloryfilled puddle of sweaty, lustful adoration with their long, pierced pink tongues. 2003 hasn't been such a stellar year for the fourstring. The White Stripes made a big, noisy fuss (again) about (still) being a strictly picksandsticks outfit; Midwestern brethren The Black Keys have done pretty much the same. John Entwistle was replaced about nine minutes after he died. Les Claypool is jamming with members of Phish. And the once ubercool drumsandbass phenomenon of yesteryear has somehow tunneled itself into near irrelevance, with hipsters everywhere frantically adjusting their caps and muttering, \"That shit was soooo 2002.\" New York's Ui, however, boasts two bassists, a newly initiated multiinstrumentalist, and a drummer. A fourman rhythmsection revenge fantasy, Ui's latest LP, Answers, isn't nearly as wearied or as Spinal Tap as its lineup might suggest this is intellectual, muscular stuff, metrical and expectedly throbbing. Marked by dynamic shifts and experimental spacehops and teeming with loads of (vaguely) jazzy grooves and cerebral pet tricks Ui persistently shake off the obvious, fiddling with time signatures, splicing, diversifying, and following an invisible sonic line that bounces and twists, stops, and starts before doubling back again.Answers is Ui's third fulllength since forming as an instrumental outfit in the early 90s, and conveniently, their third official lineup (founding members Sasha FrereJones and Clem Waldmann have withstood both shift changes). Yes: Sasha FrereJones plays bass for Ui, which, to the nonrock crit crowd, might not mean a whole lot but to those of us perpetually buried in our awesomely Eddyfied Voice music pages, FrereJones was already a pretty fucking rad New York stylist, responsible for consistently penning some of the city's best music writing, and his nimble work on Answers only adds new dimension to the (er, at least my) forever growing vat of SFJ love. If nothing else, this album proves FrereJones knows his shit. Heavily ESGinfluenced, Ui boast tons of strong New York rhythmroots, drawing from a long, twisted lineage of Gothambased dancefunksters even legendary Liquid Liquid bassist (man, these guys are secular!) Richard McGuire is signed on as a graphic designer (he also devised CD packaging for Lifelike and the Fires EP), lending Answers its curved, puzzlepiece face. And to further pad their collective artisticcollaborator resumes (as well as, I suppose, prove themselves less provincial) Ui toured and joined studio forces with Stereolab in 1998 (see Fires, recorded under the name Uilab, which features two originals and four yeah, four covers of Eno's \"St. Elmo's Fire\").Answers, though, is all Ui. \"Back Up\" pops open the album with the kind of burst that should make its title proud: alternately rumbling and reeling, the song is a bouncy tornado of funkedout grooves and sweet little melodies, each rubbing up against the others and gleefully motoring along. \"Get Hot, You Bum!\" is packed with thick, fuzzy basslines; \"Mrs. Lady Lady\" fronts (presumably vintage) synths and some (easily danceable) rhythmic breakdowns. A truckload of instruments myriad bizarre, creaky synths, even a guitar or two overload the album, but for Ui, it invariably skews back to the thumpthumpthump. The band's tendency to operate almost exclusively in beatdriven mode is interesting, and, for the most part, enormously successful but the inevitable fallout of is that it can get a wee repetitive after a while. Astoundingly, not repetitive enough to warrant serious complaint, but once you figure these songs out, there's not too much more to head back to unless, of course, you just wanna dance. When the world finally stops presuming that guitars (and, incidentally, cymbal crashes) are at the melodic core of a rock band, it should become impossible not to also recognize the bass as a surprisingly lucid sonic pioneer. Sparse without feeling empty, clear without being awkwardly straightforward, Ui can remind even the most jaded of guitar gods that what Mingus (or Mike Watt or Peter Hook) did wasn't a fluke the bass doesn't have to be supplementary. It's only a matter of time until dudes start tugging acoustic fourstrings into coffeehouses to pluck sweet lines and collect wads of cell numbers from impressed ladies. Rhythm is the new lead. "}