{"label":" Cuneiform","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8219/homepage_large.47a083d1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Univers Zero","title":"Rhythmix","text":" Once upon a time, Univers Zero were the scariest band on the block, the one that lived in the house at the end of the road with the high iron fence and unkempt lawn, their activities inside kept secret from the world outside. Early records like Heresie and Ceux du Dehors were terrifying walks through the valley of death, a chamber ensemble wheezing out moaning studies in extremely unpleasant texture and gripping dissonance. I don't know what kind of childhoods kids in Belgium have, but that country has managed to produce some of the world's most frightening bands, and Univers Zero were, without question, the most terrifying.Rhythmix is Univers Zero's second album since the band reformed in 1999 after a 13year hiatus, and if nothing else, it proves that they're still very bizarre. At its best, Rhythmix sounds like the MerryGoRound breaking down in some gruesome alternate dimension; at its worst, it sounds like a troupe of mall goths found their way into the keyboard section of Sam Ash and messed with the \"spooky\" presets. Technology is a mixed blessing for older bands, offering an inviting array of new possibilities, but frequently leading them astray. And so it goes that, on Rhythmix, drummer and band leader Daniel Denis fails most frequently when he attempts to use new technology to his advantage, sticking a \"pizzicato string section\" keyboard setting into passages for which he couldn't hire actual violinists. He and coproducer Didier de Roos also shy away from the dry, unaffected sound that made Univers Zero's early albums so brutal and direct, which robs the otherwise wellcomposed music of some of its potential impact. Somehow, they also manage to record some of the \"real\" instruments, like Michael Berckmans' woodwinds and Bart Maris' trumpet in such a way that they sound as though they're synthesized. Still, even with its relatively neutered sound, the album manages quite a few genuinely disquieting moments, such as \"Waiting for the Sun\" (not a Doors cover), which features Bart Quartier's glockenspiel front and center and sends the other instruments to the back to scrape out a dark corner for it to sit in. \"The FlyToxmen's Land\" is ferociously rhythmic and even spastic at times, building to an intense coda wherein Denis pulverizes his drums for your edification while the rest of the band holds a quivering drone behind him, completely subverting the rock vein the song begins in. Elsewhere, the music is frenzied, but hampered by the production. Eric Plantain plays a pretty badass bass, but it has this bright Tony Levin tone to it for the first few tracks that just doesn't gel with the music. Thus, the staggering processional, \"Terres Noires (Blacklands)\", sounds more awkward than it was probably intended to the idea and composition is great, but the fake harpsichord and slapbass suck the evil straight out of it. And that's really my biggest beef with Rhythmix. Superficially, it sounds like Univers Zero but without the evil, what do you have? Just another wanky prog band, I'm afraid. And while these guys are in no danger of becoming Liquid Tension Experiment anytime soon, they are risking becoming their own pale shadow, and that would be a sad waste, indeed. I urge you to give these guys a chance, but don't start here. "}