{"label":" UNKLE Sounds","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8222/homepage_large.ba35fec8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"UNKLEsounds","title":"Edit Music For a Film: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack Reconstruction","text":" James Lavelle has officially run out of musical ideas. Then again, did he ever really have any in the first place? Always more intrepid as a brandman (how 'bout those UNKLE GorTex coats and action figures!) or ambitious A&R; (let's get Thom Yorke and Richard Ashcroft!) than a DJ or musician, Lavelle has floundered since DJ Shadow renounced the UNKLE name after the release of their stillimpressive Psyence Fiction album. Without Shadow's pummeling drums, the Mo' Wax entrepreneur seemed listless on official followup Never, Never Land, and his recent limitededition UNKLE Sounds DJ set CDs have been passable at best. With the likes of Diplo and Rupture cutting, scratching, and bumping far flung sounds by the hour, Lavelle and Sounds collabbuddy Richard File come off as antiquated as some of the random movies they sample on this lazy and unspectacular motionpicturedthemed twodisc set. Originally created for a \"future cinema\" exhibit at London's Institute for the Contemporary Arts, Edit Music basically takes Lavelle's omnipresent love for all things ominous and cinematic and works them into two hourlong DJ sets that haphazardly cut and paste dialogue from dumbfuck obvious flicks like Scarface and Kill Bill alongside slightly tweaked sevenyearold UNKLE jams (\"Lonely Soul\"), and continuityfoiling soundtrack picks like Elton John's \"Tiny Dancer\" (Almost Famous) and Chris Isaak's \"Bad Bad Thing\" (Eyes Wide Shut). Disc One is introduced by the hornblaring 20th Century Fox theme and such cutesy flourishes (yes, the THX noiseblast and 2001 theme are here too) render these discs throwaway silly. Once the (quaint) thrill of Name That Movie dies down, there's little left besides sometimes pulsing, sometimes ambient soundtrack music that hardly coalesces into a thematic whole (an implicit goal thanks to the frustrating lack of individual track breaks). The image conscious spinner seemingly spent more time on the album's stark quasiVader cover than the actual mix; Lavelle's oncerefreshing anythinggoes ethos has fallen into aimless selfparody as he's now outdone by creative, openminded mp3 blogmixers on a daily basis. Even for the few trenchant UNKLE obsessives left, this liner notesless import is not only unessential but also kind of sad. Foolishly slaving to a lame atthemovies blueprint, Lavelle ignores the most exciting British beatstyles of today (ahem, grime) and sticks with his trademark doomsday sludge that now sounds as creaky as a kneejerk John Williams score. Dude should stick to pawning those tres unique (read: fugly) new UNKLENike Dunks on eBay$102.50 with an hour left! "}