{"label":" Family Vineyard","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8226/homepage_large.5737371e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Unstable Ensemble","title":"The Liturgy of Ghosts","text":" Nudged comfortably between pure noise and modern jazz is arguably the most polarizing music in the West: free improvisation. I don't want to launch a considered historical treatise on the subject, but I will say that, despite its scary rep for some, there's as much a variance in sound, texture, even impact I've experienced more than one performance wherein my reaction was almost completely different than my mate's as you'd find in any other kind of music. The problem isn't that there's not enough sound to keep my ears busy; it's that my ears are generally accustomed to a much more rigid flow of events. Groups like the Unstable Ensemble leave few breadcrumbs or signposts for me, so if I am to consider this music a \"journey\", it's inevitably going to be closer to metaphysical than linear. And, as any member of the real world will tell you, metaphysical musicjourneys aren't often on the daily agenda. None of that is to say I haven't gotten lost on a few and lived to tell about it. When I was younger, I figured people listened to this stuff because 1) they were crusty academics and/or music snobs; 2) they were supergeniuses who I should fear; or 3) they were strange homeless bohemians. Having seen many lights since then, I've realized that free improvisation isn't terribly different than other music I listen to, except that I sometimes have to guide myself (rather than let the verse/chorus/verse do it for me). Unstable Ensemble, an electroacoustic quintet featuring members from all over the Midwest and East Coast, formed in 1999 and is only too eager to lead me into mysterious regions. Two saxes (baritone and soprano), guitar, percussion and noinput mixing board (a probable nod to Japan's bustling \"onkyo\" scene featuring Toshimaru Nakamura and Otomo Yoshihide, where this kind of freedom is undergoing a slight renaissance) ebb, flow, rattle and hum their ways through extended expositions on apparently poetic themes (\"In the Fullness of Time\", \"To Speak, To Listen\", et al). The group's sound is sparse considering the amount of sounds available at their disposal; to their credit, very few toes are stepped on here, as the players clearly possess big ears. Often, if two or three instruments are sounding at once, another will drop out, or play a supportive role; effectively, this lends no small amount of shape to music that would be formless by definition. \"Beneath the Rafters\" begins with Jason Bivens' scraped guitar, sounding like rusted metal, but soon enough turns to agitated clawing and swooping. His opening becomes an overture, incorporating jazzinformed lines and eventually stating a minimal melody, at which point the saxes and percussion join the fray. Marty Belcher's soprano takes the high, ethereal road while Joe Donnelly's baritone opts for more punchy terrain. This kind of everyoneintheirplace, spatial interplay is typical for the music on The Liturgy of Ghosts, and may be good news for anyone expecting hardcore skronk. This record is strictly abstract (probably closest to European free improvisers like Hans Bennink, or even the Art Ensemble of Chicago without the overt humor), which places them firmly outside the trumpeted, oddly populist downtown NYC improv clique, but is always engaging. I'm tempted to say the album would be a good starting place for newcomers to free jazz because of its relatively restrained mood, but I don't want to imply that this is a gentle breeze. It's an interesting record, and one by a group who should be on the radar for anyone interested in these kinds of journeys. "}