{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8230/homepage_large.5be5bab1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Up, Bustle and Out","title":"Master Sessions, Vol. 2","text":" The fine people at Ninja Tune would like you to believe that Up, Bustle and Out's Master Sessions Vol. 2 is a landmark collaboration, ignoring cultural boundaries to bring together two divergent musical styles to create something new. They'd like you to believe it, and frankly, I wish I could. Here's how \"Clandestine\" Ein and Rupert Mould (aka Up, Bustle and Out) create their music. First, they sculpt beats and soundscapes out of old vinyl, then they wrangle up musicians and ask them to play over what they've created. Finally, they paste everything together, adding reverb and effects, shifting pitches, and employing other such newfangled nonsense where needed. For the twopart Master Sessions series, the duo has traveled to Cuba in search of sounds and musicians. They've even brought Portishead bassist Jim Barr along for the ride, though they spend most of this album working with master flautist, longtime bandleader and Buena Vista Social Club guy Richard Egües (and his orchestra). It's an interesting idea, certainly, and the divergent nature of the project's participants has resulted in some interesting parallels. The results are presented not as a collection of Up, Bustle and Out songs, but instead as a sort of audio documentary of the project. The disc itself is something of a mixed bag, its tracks ranging from dub to downtempo triphop to traditional Cuban jazz to beatdriven hiphop instrumentals. Taken as a standard album, this utter disregard for thematic unity can be irritating. But taken as a part of a whole package it also includes a CDROM full of Super 8 films of the sessions and a written account of the duo's time with our neighbors to the South the disc begins to make quite a bit of sense. The first two tracks are pretty standard NinjaTune fare, the sort of thing those who've only heard Up, Bustle and Out on compilations are probably expecting. \"Coffee Contamination\" is a darkly brooding downtempo/dub track with soulful saxophone, a steadytoned cowbell, handclaps, and heavy, echoing standup bass. All of this builds to an upbeat drummachine loop that breaks away to a sampled Cuban vocal which carries over into a repetition of the initial theme. But if this song is the plane ride to Cuba, the next is the arrival. \"Mariel Port, Spanish Harlem\" begins as a solid funk original until it reaches its bridge and handpercussion and subtleatfirst effects transform it into a dubfried blaxploitation theme. From there, Master Sessions Vol. 2 takes a different turn. \"Descarga Caramelo\" is the first of a number of traditional Cuban jazz tracks featuring Egües and his orchestra. The transition is somewhat jarring, not unlike, say, the culture shock that must come when two Americans set foot in Cuba. The Cuban jazz, in many ways, isn't too far removed from its origins. A simple piano part gets repeated as claves get claved and cowbells get cowbelled. A few times, we hear the words, \"Yo quiero caramelo,\" and then come the solos; first, a saxophonist, and then Egües and his magic flute, then hand drums, then piano. Next, Egües trades eighths with the saxophonist a riff stolen from Richie Valens' \"La Bamba\" is the only way to date the piece before we return to the candycoveting refrain. There's a laidback element to most of these recordings, as evidenced by the background chatter which seems almost purposely enhanced on tracks like the organandflute duet \"Organo de Bayamo.\" The music is simple, yet effective, both in form and content, a throwback to the past. This oldfashioned sensibility shows up repeatedly on tracks not unlike this one, but it's most evident on the album closer, a collage of DAT recordings made by the duo entitled \"Made in Cuba, Pt. 2.\" On one, we can just barely hear a conversation over the roaring of a nearby motor. In another, we hear a man passionately cry out a melody as he keeps a beat with assorted hand percussion. In a third, a woman sings, an acoustic guitar is strummed, and a crowd mumbles in the distance. That's it. Simple as can be. It's all fine music. Don't get me wrong. I think I can honestly say that I enjoy every track on Master Sessions 2. Still, it leaves a key question unanswered: what happens when Ein and Mould collaborate with Egües and his orchestra? Sadly, we never really find out. Tracks like \"Jazz Sepulchre\" sees the duo sampling the orchestra, yes, but they never manage to truly capture the flavor of what these musicians are doing. Again, the music is still solid, but it's something of a disappointment to see such a crosscultural collaboration hinted at but never really achieved. Though at times a bit too disjointed for its own good (most notably in the differing recording styles the clean Up, Bustle and Out tracks often don't match with the intentionally unclean sessions), Master Sessions 2 still works, if not as a document of a unique musical and cultural meeting then at least as a solid collection of songs. And that's a good thing no matter what culture you're a part of. "}