{"label":" Arborvitae","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8238/homepage_large.2bea7317.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Utah!","title":"Zoo Sounds and Destructovision EP","text":" Hello! Welcome to the Pitchfork review of Zoo Sounds and Destructovision, the debut EP from Utah! Utah! are not actually from Utah! In fact, they hail from several thousand miles away, in Kalamazoo, Michigan! Amazing! The real Utah (no exclamation point) is full of nifty geological eccentricities like buttes, stone arches, and a big, salty lake called Great Salt Lake, and lots of Mormons live there! But the Utah! that I'm talking about here contains neither buttes nor arches, nor salty lakes, nor Mormons, so let there be no confusion! That said, let's talk about what Utah! does contain! Utah! consists of Eric Singer, who plays bass and baritone guitar (he doesn't sing, though), Eddie Pellino, who sings and plays guitar, Mickey D'Loughy, who hits some drums, and Anne Polesnak, who plays a mean cello, and sings a little bit! If you enjoy long walks through twisty instrumental passages, spending time with a sensitive male vocalist, and curling up in front of your computer to watch lowbudget music videos about socially rejected robots, this CD may be the match for you! I'm getting sick of typing exclamation points, and you're likely sick of seeing them, so I'll stop now! Really, I promise!Zoo Sounds and Destructovision presents a band who wouldn't have to do a whole lot to go from being simply passable to being outstanding. For one thing, they're all skilled musicians this is obvious from the lengthy instrumental passages that find their way into every song. For the moment, though, the most interesting interplay is between the cello, bass, and drums. The guitar, however, hasn't quite found its place in the intertwining lines, preferring to grind away in a cloud of heavy fuzz in the background. This results in a texturally dense sound, which, though sometimes effective, often obscures the melodic substance of the songs, be it in the cello or the vocals. Indeed, Pellino's earnest vocals reminiscent of a young Jeremy Enigk or Joe Davis from the Pinehurst Kids often find themselves a little bit buried in the mix. It's not as though the melodies are that great, anyway, but being able to hear them better might help the listener remember them. The other reason these songs don't tend to stick is that, in the instrumental sections, the band as a whole is often too content to simply ride a groove without offering any melodic material over the top. Polesnak's cello occasionally begs comparisons to Hilary Soldati's outstanding work with Smart Went Crazy, but just as often, it kind of sits around with the other instruments, shooting the breeze and neglecting to entertain. Singer's basslines add the rubbery bottom that brings each song to life it's his elastic fretboard stylings that jumpstart \"The Boy Who Gave Away the Bomb\" and \"Babette's Areola,\" interlocking with D'Loughy's frenetic drumming perfectly. D'Loughy could best be described as a busy drummer, and man, does he like his snare! (Sorry!) There are songs on this EP where I swear he doesn't even use toms. In the context of Utah!'s music, though, his active style and heavy snare abuse work well to push the proceedings along. The snare also cuts through the dense, bassheavy mix better than any other drum. And with that, we come to the part of the review where we discuss the disc's added value features. Yes, Utah! believe in giving you more for your money, and in this spirit, they have included a short film called \"Robot 2: You're Strange If You Know\" in the multimedia portion of this disc. Let me begin discussing this film by saying that I've read reviews of this EP which detail the existential ramifications of said film and speak of its power and meaning. This will not be one of those reviews. Rather, I'll mention the fact that the movie has a certain amateurish charm to it that's hard to deny, but it hardly bears more than one or two views. Essentially, it centers on a big, clunky, humanoid robot who tries to go to a concert being given by an especially heavy emo band in a dingy basement, and gets driven off by the band's fans (possibly because he's not emotional enough). He then attempts to join a card game at a party, but is again shunned by the human participants. He wanders back to the concert, where he headbangs for a bit (this is very amusing, by the way) and gets kicked out again. Despondent, he walks to the river and stares at the moon. He flashbacks to his birth. There are shots from the ground of men with blowtorches in surgical masks, while subtitles that plaintively ask, \"Why are they making me?\" fade in and out until the movie ends with a shot of our dejected hero sitting alone on the waterfront. The lesson we take away from this, of course, is that we should all be nicer to big, clunky robots. Because, after all, they just want to fit in. This moral should also apply to men dressed in big, clunky robot suits. They have feelings, too, you know. Overall, the movie is a cute diversion that adds little value to the package as a whole, but only provides amusement for a short time. As for the EP itself, Utah! definitely have an interesting sound that's worth exploring. With a little more focus on melody and some stronger songs, they have the potential to make a very interesting debut album. Unfortunately, Utah! haven't quite perfected their sound yet here, and it makes for a fairly unmemorable record. Here's hoping for more in the future! "}