{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8242/homepage_large.a376eedf.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"The USA Is a Monster","title":"Wohaw","text":" Named after the 19th century Kiowa warrior whose artwork graces its cover, Wohaw is USAISAMONSTER's second album for Load Records, and on it the Brooklynbased duo continue the righteous rampage of 2003's Tasheyana Compost. Over the course of 14 tracks, Wohaw finds group members Tom Hohmann and Colin Langevin using their combustible noiserock to address the plight and lost histories of various oppressed peoples, particularly Native Americans. Needless to say, this is an ambitious undertaking, one made more so by the inherent rigors of the duo's music. Combining the hyperspeed progmetal riffing of compatriots Lightning Bolt, the ethnopummel of Sun City Girls' Torch of the Mystics, and a surprising abundance of campfirebaked folk, the album gallops recklessly from one destination to the next as though determined to throw even the hardiest cavalry off their trail. As you might suspect from their cumbersome band name or song titles like \"All the Worlds Leaders Must Die\", USAISAMONSTER don't necessarily put much stock in subtlety. Granted, this does little to hinder tracks like opener \"Clay People\", which boasts the thunder of a stampeding herd of bison, or the selfexplanatory \"Riff Scientist\" which matches highpitched squalls with hairpin chords and vocals that recall the stoner karaoke stylings of early Meat Puppets. Throughout these heavier tracks, Hohmann and Langevin display an almost preternatural degree of cohesion, as they corner every spastic, complex rhythm as though they're on rails. Midway through the album, the twosome make their most unlikely Uturn yet, as the tranquil \"Waterfall\" initiates a fivetrack sequence of unadulterated acoustic folk. Accompanied only by acoustic guitars, on \"George Catlin and the Mandan Chief\" Langevin negotiates some extremely unwieldy lyrics (\"A likeness of the Mandan's Chief/ Was recognized with disbelief/ Excited curiosity of the entire village at once\") to create a bittersweet vision of the American artist Catlin as he captures portraits of cultures bound for extinction. Stranger still is \"Alligator Allegory\", a wandering narrative sung with an otherworldly, almost Skip Spencelike eccentric flourish. As engaging as this brief acoustic interlude is, the twosome do little in attempt to unite the album's distinct sonic poles. Following Wohaw's acoustic lull, the passionate Leonard Peltier saga \"God Is Red\" opens with an intro of exotic reeds and tribal drumming, but soon lumbers back into the band's familiar mathematical pounding, all traces of folk dissipated into thin air. And though this abrupt aboutface might earn USAISAMONSTER some bones for versatility, it also makes an already thorny album sound that much more disjointed, causing some listeners to long for the day when the duo can figure out a way to bring their various surging streams into better confluence. "}