{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/832/homepage_large.4f8280e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Boards of Canada","title":"Music Has the Right to Children","text":" Sometimes an album is so good and makes its case so flawlessly that it spawns a minigenre of its own and becomes shorthand for a prescribed set of values. The Velvet Underground's third and Miles Davis' Bitches Brew are two older records that spring to mind, and I'd toss in Spiderland as well. It's not a long list, but somewhere on it belongs Boards of Canada's Music Has the Right to Children.Earlier this month, Warp Records reissued Music Has the Right to Children worldwide, adding the bonus track \"Happy Cycling\" (which we Americans with our Matadorlicensed copies have always known as the album closer) and redesigning the cover art as a foldout digipak. It's always a bit strange when an album is reissued when it has not, in any sense, ever gone away. How could we possibly have forgotten about Music Has the Right to Children when the sound Michael Sandison and Marcus Eoin created here is still the predominant inspiration in IDM? And yet, here we are, new package and new marketing push. Even so, six years after its original release is as good as any time to look into why Music Has the Right to Children has resonated so strongly.Boards of Canada's sound was not wholly original. Seeds of it can be found in Eno, Aphex Twin (in a big way), The Orb, and all over the home listening electronic scene that sprang up in the wake of Warp's Artificial Intelligence compilation. Boards used drum machines, samplers, and an unfathomable collection of analog and digital synths, like others in their sphere. Their chords were typically gauzy ambient, their beats headnodding downtempo. Properly speaking, they invented nothing.And yet, the parts had never come together quite like this. The first thing to note is that Music Has the Right revealed Boards of Canada to be geniuses with texture, where god is in the details. The incredibly simple melody of the short \"Bocuma\" becomes a lumpinthethroat meditation on man's place in the universe through subtle pitchshifts and just the right mist of reverb. The slow fadein on \"An Eagle in Your Mind\" is the lonesome sound of a gentle wind brushing the surface of Mars moments after the last rocket back to Earth has lifted off. The long history of the electric piano was nothing but a leadin to the tone Boards used on \"Turquoise Hexagon Sun\", the perfect evocation of a happy walk through the woods in an altered state. Every IDM artist since has at least once labored over their modular unit to get a patch that sounds like one of the many brilliant sounds found here.Boards of Canada had released some singles and two EPs previous to this record's release, material which showed that they'd already developed their sound. But with Music Has the Right to Children, the duo set out to make a proper album, and approached the album from a rock perspective, carefully mixing and editing the track sequence, while drafting interludes and tightly restricting the palette. You aren't likely to hear more subtly effective layering of sounds on any electronic record in the last 10 years: Music Has the Right to Children is as unified and complete they come. Here, Boards of Canada set their sights on a small set of moods and characteristics innocence, apprehension, wonder, mystery and probed every possibility in minute detail.What's it all about, then? \"Childhood\" is the usual answer, but that's not as easy a connection as it seems on the surface. The giggling voices of kids that crop up are a sure giveaway, as are the song titles (\"Rue the Whirl\", \"Happy \"Cycling\"), but Music Has the Right to Children avoids the twinkling music box melodies that Múm has been coasting on for a while now. Boards managed to evoke childhood without seeming cute or twee. It's childhood not as it's lived but as we grownups remember it, at least those of us with lessthanfond recollections. The shades of darkness and undercurrents of tension (qualities which came further to the fore on 2002's Geogaddi) accurately reflect the confusion of a time that cannot be neatly summed up with any one feeling or emotion.When you discover that Boards of Canada took their name came from an organization committed to educational film, the overriding idea of their project clicks immediately into place. I've no memories of the National Film Board of Canada but I remember tapes with narration and incidental music accompanying filmstrips, tapes that were always damaged from age and overuse on poorly maintained equipment. The warbly pitch and warped voices mirrored the anxiety that came with the \"carefree\" days of being a kid and living subjugated to others. Boards of Canada tapped into the collective unconscious of those who grew up in the English speaking West and were talented enough to transcribe the soundtrack. No need to get hung up on specifics; however we lived and whoever we were, Music Has the Right to Children reflected back the truth for a lot of us. You can't ask more of an album than that. "}