{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8244/homepage_large.86555f61.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"The Unicorns","title":"2014 EP","text":" The Unicorns have got to get their shit together. If the 2014 EP is any indication, they need to cut their touring and attempt to write some worthwhile songs to complement those on last year's brilliant Who Will Cut Our Hair When We're Gone?. This disc's two new songs, \"2014\" and \"Emasculate the Masculine\", offer very little justification for their release, and the EP's two other tracks an outtake and a demo shamelessly try to fill out a disc already short on time and ideas. If there's any common ground between these two new songs, it's that both seem strikingly unfinished, and far less developed than the band's previous material. \"2014\" begins promisingly in a whirlwind of catchy lofi Casiotones and bedroom dancepunk beats, while hushed vocals keep in line with the group's familiar morbid tack, wondering if in a decade there will still be \"enough oxygen for me to breathe.\" From here, however, The Unicorns attempt to replace the song's existing melody with haphazard textured builds and collapses that, in their hastily slapped together state, feel aimless, sloppy, and entirely amateurish. A potentially redemptive lalala chorus kicks in toward the track's end, but lasts only a few seconds before petering out with an abrupt, meandering finish. \"Emasculate the Masculine\" is much more straightforward, but perhaps to a fault. The song builds around barband guitar strums that display just enough quirk to recall for better or worse the similarly chickenwirey outfit Cake. Rather than stuffing the track with great, fleeting hooks as in the past, The Unicorns have decided here to ride a single, simple melody, delivered in an unconvincing whisper. Eventually, guitars spin up a perfectly nostalgic Final Fantasy II melody that drives the track out, complete with cowbells, a hot synth riff, and a hidden but hooky grumble of noise that proves to be the song's poignant last breath. But again, the potential redemption of this closing segment fails to invite enthusiasm like the material on their debut, due to the awkward, slapdash nature of the rest of the track. Like \"2014\", Who Will Cut Our Hair outtake \"Evacuate the Vacuous\" opens with potential on a slow, sparse lilt and the disc's only real guitar hook, but again, the results are wanting, and why this song never made the fulllength quickly becomes obvious. Here, The Unicorns hastily jump through several varying dynamics and approaches, but without any of their usual refinement, and even fewer interesting ideas. Even the lyrics consider \"Everything's okay in its own little way\" seem trite and unconsidered. (Needless to say: After this run through stale Bsides and outtakes, the inclusion of a demo version of the disc's title track seems more than a little pointless.) What's frustrating about all of this, of course, is that The Unicorns, when in the right mindset, are capable of drumming up distinctively original and mindblowingly memorable indie pop bliss. But the lack of inspiration on display here may be a result of more than just an off day in the studio: Recently, rumors have circulated of infighting between members, and the live shows which they performed with such enthusiasm and unrelenting mania last fall have begun to feel somewhat stilted and tense. Earlier this month, the band posted a message to their website after a particularly disastrous show in Montreal, stating, \"If we don't take some considerable time off, I think we might all go crazy.\" 12 months of rigorous touring can put an enormous strain on band relations particularly when its core members have been pals since their schooldays. While this is all pure speculation, overexertion and irritability would at least offer a plausible excuse for the lack of imagination and effort behind these songs. Otherwise, there just isn't one. "}