{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8251/homepage_large.4e1278ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"V-Twin","title":"The Blues Is a Minefield","text":" Sometimes a song is so good, it just forces you to notice a band and acknowledge their brilliance, no matter what the rest of their stuff sounds like. VTwin have one of those songs, a tricky little electrobluespunk freakout called \"Delinquency\" that's so great they've used it four times and I still haven't gotten tired of it. The band's first longplayer the singles compilation Free the Twin contained three different versions, including remixes by Royal Trux and Jagz Kooner, each of which was so unstintingly brilliant, I was convinced nothing but great things lay ahead for them. It didn't hurt that the rest of the disc was pretty good, too. Well, three years later, they're still riding \"Delinquency\", this time with a denser, less dubbedout version that simply proves that all the tampering in the world couldn't ruin this song. From the signature divebombing drum fills to singer Jason McPhail's declaration \"I reckon rock 'n' roll's from outer space,\" there are so many perfect elements in place that it's impossible to kill this tune's twochord genius. But while the song's fourth incarnation is the undeniable high point of the album, the Glaswegian foursome is so full of ideas and Northern swagger that they couldn't help but pull together an interesting album. If the Beta Band are the Linus of British eclecticism, clinging to a blanket of tapespeed effects and UK electronica, then VTwin are certainly the Pigpen, swimming in a constant swirl of studio dirt and rock and roll dust. \"Get Your Wings\" is video game music you can drink cocktails to, topped with fake mellotron and McPhail's White Albumera Lennon croon; \"VTwin City Rockers\" has those bleepy Trio synths flopping all over its fuzzy bass line and winds up sounding like Primal Scream simultaneously remixing Kraftwerk and Kylie Minogue. And then there's \"the Emperor Is Dead\", a slow dirge that ropes in the horn section from King Crimson's Lizard and pastes them uncomfortably amidst McPhail's unintelligible pontificating and drunken programmed drums.  Of course, it's possible to be so full of ideas that they start turning into bullshit, and they do in small patches, particularly on closer \"Across the Lanes\", which loses all focus as a direct result of its overabundant use of echo and effects. Likewise, the band apparently spent so much time finetuning all the flittering whirligigs and sputtering doodads on \"Despot Blues\" that they forgot to write a real melody for it. But this ceases to be important when you're taking in the splendid mayhem of opener \"Call a Meeting\", a Jasper Johns collage of a song, pasting Albert Ayler horns, Stones bluster and garage sludge into a ProTweaked barrage that bursts every so often into absolutely ecstatic guitar riffs. It's a mess, but what a glorious mess it is. The blues hits every mine in the field here, and the explosions are almost uniformly cool. Rock and roll is a great genre precisely because of its malleability, and though I'd never say these four Scots who named themselves for a Harley Davidson engine type are here to save rock, they do a damn fine job of exploiting its possibilities. If nothing else, you have to love a band that knows what they're doing is fraught with danger, yet refuses to tread lightly. "}