{"label":" Touch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8254/homepage_large.515dd397.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Mika Vainio","title":"In the Land of the Blind The One-Eyed Is King","text":" When not turning entrails into milkshakes with the frequency fuckery of his fulltime project Pan Sonic or performing clinical click/cut operations as either Ø or Philus, Mika Vainio has spent his time accumulating a curious catalog of sounds on the Touch imprint, be they of the curatorial art gallery background sort or the more frontal lobefrying, barbed sinewaves sort. His fourth solo disc finds a kind of strange theme: sailors. Here he is, all dolledup like a siren with a wig and fishnets, waylaying freshly shaved skippers on shore leave with a beguiling sound that's part goodtime laughter, part throat gurgling, and part cheapliquor retching, before he stoves their heads 20 seconds in with a savage blast of broken glass, roars, and machinations. If those Yankee recruits could only have read Finnish, they'd have known that the title \"Revi Täällä, Merimies\" actually translates to \"Sunder Here, Sailor\". \"It Is Existing\" breathes some backalley gases through the lungs, seeping out an air of greasy haze over a slimy puddle underfoot. Once that clears up, Vainio turns his prey down a dark passage, chloroforming them again until all you can hear is their drugged, staggering heartbeats and the swaying neon of the redlight district. Coming to from the stupor, the sailors find themselves stripped clean, clanging against some oil barrels as they try to hide out on an opaque dock in a strange port town. \"He Was a Sound Sometimes\" drones pleasantly the first two minutes, before the record ends and a needle starts to slowly drag across the label, pulling the ears back down while gathering up dust as it loops itself. Vainio finally gets around to replacing it with a rare record of steamer engines, all surface noise and menacing hiss. Floating still on that boat, he wraps a scratchy wool pea coat tighter around the head before a tea kettle in the captain's quarters reaches a roiling boil, evaporating all that came before it. The blissful peak comes at the center of the record. \"Colour of Plants\" uses a gentle harmoniumhum as the starting strand of a relaxing sort of sea cruise, while Vainio assuredly gathers a gravity about it, stretching its salty breadth to encompass all available space, at the same time retaining its hypnotic state, the colors of the open sea glowing a ghostly blue iridescence that carries through the more landlocked tracks \"Streets\" and twothirds of \"Motel\". But that's where the nightmares begin. Forgoing the nautical imaginings for the seedier side of noir, the end of \"Motel\" seethes with a menacing series of squeals before segueing into the drunken lurch of \"Snowblind\", which is just blottoed enough to hear the ozone gathering over the flickering TV static, all of it turning into an acidreflux of hot mash, making the bythehour room spin and strobe. \"Further, Higher!\" finds us by the seaside for a split second, hearing the crashing waves before a low drum hit drops us back into the dank galley darkness, where the shanghaied sailors sleep. Small orchestral flames slowly cast a glow over the claustrophobic space, just catching the glint of a blade before it chops the disc to an end. More frequently than not, Vainio serves up a disarming fluctuation between the extremes of ambience and power noise, even changing horses midstream in the track if the mood takes him. A fine bodily hijacking that's neither too mellow nor too harsh. "}