{"label":" Atavistic","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8260/homepage_large.a4fa6c81.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"The Vandermark Five","title":"Airports for Light","text":" Ken Vandermark gained his first real exposure as the young tenor sax player in Chicago avanticon Hal Russell's NRG Ensemble in the late 80s. Along with Mars Williams, Vandermark provided an edgy, almost punky spirit to the band's music, and, after Russell's death, went on to form his own celebrated outfit with Williams, The Vandermark Five. Trombonist Jeb Bishop and the outstanding bassist Kent Kessler have appeared on all the group's records since 1997's Single Piece Flow, but Dave Rempis eventually replaced Williams. The quintet's music, like Hal Russell's, has generally maintained a space not easily pigeonholed as straight jazz, nor is it strictly avantgarde, free or jazzrock; Vandermark might draw the easiest comparisons to New York fellow headoftheclasser John Zorn, or more accurately, Ellery Eskelin.Airports for Light is the Vandermark Five's sixth record, and will be of interest to anyone who has enjoyed their previous five. In fact, the familiarity can be distracting: the playing is spoton, all the time, especially from Bishop and Vandermark, both of whom display a fairly intimidating mastery of styles and timbres. The music ranges from Europeanstyled free improvisation, rock and funk moves, sudden bursts of activity and all the cohesion you'd expect from a band of players who'd been together for much of the past decade. But if things occasionally seem a little too familiar, it's not for lack of interesting ideas. And it's not that this stuff doesn't swing it certainly does. \"Both Sides\", dedicated to legendary jazz tenor saxophonist Budd Johnson, lays it all out pretty clearly. Johnson's tenure with the pianist Earl \"Fatha\" Hines earned him a rep as one of the swingingest cats in town, and fittingly, Vandermark's tune is half Chicago strut and half snappy Playboy lounge blue. His solo actually reminds me of another saxman, Plas Johnson, most famous for his playing on Henry Mancini's infamous Pink Panther theme, and a damn fine swingman in his own right. Vandermark's playing is loose, but clean; understated but obviously nuanced. He plays a perfect chorus, and Bishop's more modern sounding strains seem somehow misplaced in comparison (though not much, especially in light of the free jazz on either side of this song). The worst I can say is that the music is a tad on the comfy side and that's only a problem if you want it to be. \"Other Cuts\", dedicated to Curtis Mayfield, takes the niceneasy road, too, but as it applies to lowdown 70s funk rather than beatnik jazz. And just as the band made quick work of swing, they have little problem finding the pocket here. Again, Vandermark's solo is precise to a fault not in his choice of notes or articulation, but in the way it so easily falls in line with the scores of small group funk sides of the late 60s and 70s. Think Lou Donaldson at his meanest, or The Crusaders playing a gig in a Houston dive on a weeknight. Of course, Kessler's completely free, unaccompanied solo midway through sort of blows any \"authenticity\" out the window, but only for the better. Airports for Light is at its best when it surprises. Several explicitly exploratory cuts like \"Plus (for Fredrik Ljungkvist)\", reminiscent of the early Art Ensemble of Chicago records, and \"Initials (for Jean Tinguely)\", a fairly chaotic mixture of bleating outbursts and clangs demonstrate that Vandermark's group is at home without the net of a genre frame (though my favorite moments are actually when their wheels start to come off, as on the blistering opener, \"Cruz Campo\", dedicated to artist Gerhard Richter, who was immortalized in the indie world when Sonic Youth took his Two Candles as the cover of Daydream Nation). Here, the kinetic, unhinged energy splatters all over the place, with Bishop in particular navigating the catastrophe with fresh, scatterbrained ideas. The band revisits this vibe on the closer, \"Confluence (for Sonny Rollins)\", though the end result is less a joyous anarchy than it is your workaday explosion of 60scomeback era Rollins meeting postJohn Zorn mash. (As a side note, Vandermark is a major Rollins fan, and some editions of this CD come with a bonus disc of six more of his songs.) The good news for folks not normally on the jazz bus is that Vandermark's records with this band and without tend to offer outsiders a helping hand. His own playing can be fierce, or noisy, and his band is always topnotch, but the tunes are hardly offputting. In fact, in a way, The Vandermark Five are a perfect bridge for rock fans raised on the notion that jazz is the music of a secret society filled with a thousand guys named Bud or Johnny. By the same token, longtime listeners may not be knocked out of their seat, but should at least find enough of interest to invest the time it takes to make it through. Not quite as viscerally engaging as catching their set at the club, but good stuff nonetheless. "}