{"label":" Overcoat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/834/homepage_large.8bcdd79e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brendan Reid","artist":"Boas","title":"Mansion","text":" That oldtime music... boy, I tell ya, it really kind of blows. I mean, naturally, people made good music at every point in history, but at present, more and more musicians are dredging up the recent past (new wave, electro, garage) and expecting to haul up gold. So, when the results of their wholesale extirpation turn out mixed, we're forced to admit that either a) the past wasn't up to snuff after all, or b) nostalgia isn't what it used to be. Chicago's Boas seem to think that by digging deeper than most bands, they have a shot at striking the golden vein, but they often disagree on how far back to reach. There's a bit of sappy orchestral pop in their mix, some vintage organ sounds here and there, a lot of languid C&W; picking, and above all, John Klos' sickofhisownsoul yowl, begging to be wrapped in static. It could be they get tearyeyed for mid90s indie, with the meandering start/stoppage and often obtuse refusal to rock in any straightforward way. But however you want to describe their sound, it's all very intentional, and referentially \"old.\" Boas come off like fairly competent young dudes with an ear for a lazy melody, on whom old age has been suddenly and painfully selfinflicted. Sometimes they profit from their wealth of influences: A song as exhaustedly sprawling as the pianofueled shuffle \"The Last Zoo House Band\" covers so much territory, it's bound to hit something good eventually (the horn coda at its end). Often, though, the songs are too broken down to crawl toward any sort of significance: \"Ghetto Pond\" doesn't have the energy to make Klos' gargled nonsequitirs and stark declarations of, \"Ain't nothin' not special no more,\" seem anything more than hollow; \"Get Up, Crippled Wife\" lacks the strength to break through its fog of synthesizers. Good or bad, Boas seem like they've been coated with an impenetrably thick layer of dust. It's not really clear why Boas want to engage in this sort of coverup; when the outlines of real songs start to show at the end of the album, I like the pretty young things I see. \"Mrs. Mother\" dispels the pall with a burst of wistfully playful pop, while \"For Sheriff Allison\" trades in affected age for unstrained, deceptively simple folk. Finally, on \"Oh, Doctor\", the band's scattered Wowee Zoweeisms congeal into raucous, joyfully overdriven axethwacking. But just when they're really getting going, the album ends, its best songs buried behind a stack of less vital, less engaging material. Still, it's not every day that you get to watch years roll back right in front of your eyes; if time keeps on running in the wrong direction for Boas, they could hit upon the same sort of kaleidoscopic revue that worked so well for seasoned vets like The Flaming Lips and Mercury Rev. "}