{"label":" Ryko / Hannibal","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8294/homepage_large.da61d154.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Moreno Veloso +2","title":"Music Typewriter","text":" \"Like father, like son,\" goes the saying. In healthy fatherson relationships, it's usually pretty much true from Cal Ripken Jr. following his father onto the Orioles, to my dad and I having similar senses of humor. And so it is with Moreno and Caetano Veloso. Caetano, the elder, is a veritable legend in Brazil, one of the most important musical forces in his country for the last 35 years, and a master of his art. And now, up steps his son Moreno to the plate, looking ready to take on his father's mantle after only a single album. It's fitting that the opener of Moreno's debut album should be a song cowritten with his father. \"Sertao (Outback)\" is a flawlessly beautiful song about the peacefulness that music can induce (the lyrics are printed in both Portuguese and English, translated by Arto Lindsay), and Moreno handles acoustic guitar and cello with equal facility. What's even more impressive than his playing, though, is his voice, which hovers over the entire album like some sort of weightless object. Not only has he inherited his father's gift for effortless melody, but his tenor is also imbued with Caetano's sturdy character. That said, though, Moreno doesn't sound exactly like his father and seems to have worked rather diligently to develop a style that's uniquely his own. At the other end of the album, \"Sertao\" is complemented by what is possibly the prettiest thing I've heard all year: a simple, straightforward cover of the Morey/Churchill song, \"I'm Wishing,\" originally featured in Disney's 1937 release of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The arrangement is extremely simple only Moreno's voice, backed the sparse piano playing of another son of a Brazilian legend, Daniel Jobim. The lyrics alternate between the original English and Portuguese translations, and the music is played out of time, drawing out some phrases and shortening others for maximum impact. Stripped of its original maudlin arrangement and pretense, it's an incredibly moving song, closing the album on an unselfconsciously pretty note. Between those two songs, Moreno and his collaborators (the +2 after his name are two extremely talented guys listed only as Domenico and Kassin) pull out basically every stop, combining traditional Brazilian sounds with everything from buzzing synth bass to theremins swarming around the edges of \"Das Partes (of Parts).\" If the bookends of Music Typewriter are designed to move your heart, then much of what lies in between is meant to move the rest of you. For proof, look no further than \"Arrivederci,\" with its buoyant rhythms, scratchy guitar and ridiculously funky bass parts. If your head isn't bobbing by the time you hit the first shout chorus, you must be dead. It's also one of a few songs where Moreno pulls out his trumpet, yet another instrument he seems born to play. \"Enquanto Isso (Meanwhile)\" busts out another funky groove, combining programmed drums with Domenico's able kit playing, and layering tumbling Portuguese guitars on top. Kassin's bass duels with the synth while Moreno's vocals soar several thousand feet above. One of the less noticeable differences between Moreno and his father (to English speakers, anyway) is that Moreno's lyrics rarely enter political territory the way Caetano's so often do. Whereas Caetano's latest album, Noites do Norte, focuses fully half of its songs on Brazil's legacy of slavery, Music Typewriter's lyrics remain fully content to dwell on more personal issues. Moreno's particularly adept at filling his songs with intense visual imagery and thoughtful discourse on the triedandtrue subject of love. At 28 years of age, and with only one album under his belt, it's hard to say whether or not Moreno Veloso's career will ever reach the breadth or importance of his father's, but it seems unfair to judge him on that now. Instead, I'm willing to take Music Typewriter for what it is: an excellent and very promising debut from a young artist who seems destined for great things. "}