{"label":" Slowdance","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8296/homepage_large.5a4e39a3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Velvet Teen","title":"Out of the Fierce Parade","text":" Boy, is The Velvet Teen a crappy superhero. A geeky 16yearold caught in an explosion at Fabrictron's experimental Nuclear Textile Factory, Jimmy Krauser not only miraculously survived but also developed the unique power to transform his skin into a velvetlike substance at will. Forgetting the 'great power' part of the 'with great power comes great responsibility' adage, Jimmy set about fighting the rather pedestrian criminals of his quiet suburban Houston neighborhood, subduing shoplifters and underage drinkers by rubbing the soft, tiny hairs of his velvety forearm against their face. Yet, save the occasional battle with archenemy Dr. Velour (same explosion, similar powers, evil, etc.), The Velvet Teen is an unremarkable superhero at best. The mediocrity of Jimmy and his tactile battle against smalltime wrongdoing is reflected in his soundtrack, Out of the Fierce Parade. While SpiderMan gets to swing around buildings to facialhair rock from members of Nickelback and Alice in Chains, the Velvet Teen's music is of the introspective Northwest indierock scene: music for rainyday snuggling not rainynight, upsidedown, slobbery Kirsten Dunst kisses. It's an appropriate matchup, though, as The Velvet Teen the costumed crusader and The Velvet Teen the musical trio both have the same general vibe: well intentioned, but not too original, and not very well executed. The Velvet Teen are a trio from Cotati, California with a debut album produced by Death Cab for Cutie's Chris Walla. Building most songs around singer/guitarist/keytickler Judah Nagler's grand piano, the band favors long, slowburning arrangements blanketed in Walla's usual fetish for the reverb knob. Selfconsciously soaring above it all is Nagler's falsettomoreoftenthannot voice, one that is more than a little reminiscent of a certain lazyeyed Brit whose name rhymes with Yom Thorke. But like the other 873 wouldbe Thommys straining their vocal cords these days, Nagler's lack of subtlety and restraint is a quick reminder of the original's considerable emoting skills. Rarely deviating from the upper registers, Nagler's vox fail to underscore the tragislacker lyrics, blurring any and all sentiments into an incessant whine. The music, meanwhile, belies a similarly obvious Radiohead lean, albeit one that sets too high a bar for the band imagine the freshfaced and heavyhanded Pablo Honeyera grungers taking on the sleepdeprived paranoia of OK Computer. This approach leaves Out of the Fierce Parade with a lot of interesting, if familiar, minorkey ideas lost amidst unwieldy five, six, and sevenminutelong navelgazing arrangements. \"A Special Gift for You\" and \"Into the Open\" manage to develop fairly effective dreamy environments, but would still benefit from a few days on the musical Atkins Diet. The obesity of \"Red, Like Roses\" and \"Death,\" however, goes right down to their genetics epics that take two or three minutes to charge up, while never paying any dividends once they finally get rolling. When things are kept lean, short, and given a bit of a backbone transplant (\"Radiapathy,\" or the synthy C.S. Lewis nod \"Caspian Can Wait\"), The Velvet Teen sound much more alive, though still stuck in the shadow of their Anglophilia. Sorely in need of an editor, and without a direction or sound to call their own, the band never even comes close to the oddball density of the Henry Miller excerpt they provide in the CD inset (remind me to check Tropic of Cancer out from the library). It ain't crimefighting music hell, it ain't even crimefighting video game music but this is one pathetic superhero that shouldn't be encouraged. "}