{"label":" Hymen","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8301/homepage_large.5b2ea695.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Venetian Snares","title":"A Giant Alien Force More Violent & Sick Than Anything You Can Imagine EP","text":" If there's a word for Aaron Funk the Canadian avenger and breakcoremashup vigilante also known as Venetian Snares that word is undoubtedly prolific. Since the millennium went down with a whimper, Funk has released no less than six fulllengths on labels like Hymen, Isolate, and Planet \\xB5, not to mention a plethora of EPs, singles and remixes. That each release (the BritIDM of 2370804, the ragga madness of his Snares Man! work, the speedmetal gore of Making Orange Things) succeeded in adding new bruises and scars to the Venetian Snares sound while never falling short of brilliant makes those figures all the more impressive. With a new album already on deck for Mike Paradinas' Planet \\xB5 label (not to mention his forthcoming sexperimental collaboration with Hecate, under their Nymphomatriarchs guise), is it any wonder that an intriguing, inventive, oddly formatted Venetian Snares disc should be available from Hymen at almost the same time? At first glance, A Giant Alien Force More Violent & Sick Than Anything You Can Imagine may seem like a gimmick: a threeinch disc containing one fifteenminute, thirtythree second track is housed in a snug red box with a miniature TV viewfinder. Through it, you can observe the gargantuan album title emblazoned on everything from a grain silo to the abdomen of a deceased grasshopper. To be sure, many electronic labels have dabbled in \"special packaging\" with mixed results: if you've seen a purple Universal Indicator record or a limited SKAM release going for $200 on eBay, you know what I'm talking about. But what does this say about the music on such releases? Is a gimmick all it takes to move units? The overuse of \"special\" covers and multiple editions nearly killed the comic book industry in the early 90s, before everyone realized that, if you wrap shit in silk, you wind up with silk that smells like shit. Or: content has to live up to its packaging. Incredibly, A Giant Alien Force does just that, proving not only that Venetian Snares continues to revolutionize the genre with his mindbending, brutal take on noise and breaks, but that any special packaging included with his music is accessory, not the other way 'round. Which leaves you asking: What has Funk done on this one track that sets it apart from the rest of the Venetian Snares catalog? Truth be told, his approach on \"A Giant Alien Force\" doesn't stray too much from the violated drill 'n' bass of the Shitfuckers EP or the Venetian jungle bass and breaks on tracks like \"Fuck Toronto Jungle\" and \"Aqap\". Beginning with a menacing ambient fog that settles over the ears like gauze, Funk moves into sonic territory echoing Melodies from Mars cosmic, almost cartoonish synths straight out of an Ed Wood flick are backed by manic, fractured breakbeats that become increasingly cutthroat, eventually swallowing the melody like a python gorging itself on a terrified squirrel. And that's when things get really fucked up. Air raid sirens scream, a shuffling beat emerges from behind layers of blurred static, and the bassline slides its way down the rave rabbit hole, emerging on the other side stained with background drones, almost trancelike in their ethereality. Those, in turn, are pushed aside by an octave crushing, subsonic bass meltdown, which decays into a culminating torrent of assrupturing drum loops that ride a wave of white noise to the dark at the end of the tunnel. It's almost as punishing as Atari Teenage Riot's Live at Brixton Academy, and it brings the track full circle, making it a hot air balloon ride around Planet Snares; no sonic stone in Funk's bag of tricks goes unturned. By merging all of his personalities into one epic track, Venetian Snares guarantees an experience in aural violation as devastating and rewarding as anything in his catalog. In the end, the point of this release becomes crystal clear: even on a format best suited for Mario Party 4, it's not the size of your packaging that counts, but how ruthlessly you beat the shit out of the listener that really matters. Venetian Snares shows up to this party like a rabid dwarf with brass knuckles, and leaves you with a bloody, toothless grin. "}