{"label":" Lo","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8323/homepage_large.88ba4062.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Luke Vibert","title":"Nuggets: Luke Vibert's Selection","text":" When one thinks of the early days of electronic music, one often imagines some crazy old professor locked up in a lab, communicating with a machine the size of a house, churning out something illogical and strange which no one but the most diehard of avantgardists would ever hear. But this was not always the case. Take Raymond Scott, for example, a maverick mind who made music with computers in the 1950s60s. Whether or not you know his name, you've heard his music. His short compositions served as the score for everything from Twinkies commercials to Marvin the Martian cartoons. Such was the fate of most early electronic artists. Though their names may never be known by anyone but the most obsessive music nerds, their work will live on, both in its random appearances in popular culture and in the effect it had on artists of today. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Scott and others like him toiled away in relative obscurity, making short pieces, the rights to which would often later be purchased by television producers. Recent years have seen enterprising record labels filing through the vaults of this socalled Library Music. Recent compilations like Motel Records' Cinemaphonic Soul Punch series, Strut UK's Music for Dancefloors: The Cream of the Chapell Music Library Sessions, and Manhattan Research Basta Records' compilation of recently unearthed recordings by Scott showcased an amazing array of music, all farahead of its time, and most of it steeped in anonymity. Half the fun of this music, of course, lies with that air of familiarity. Even if you've never heard the particular song before, it has a feel that's similar to the music you've been hearing all your life without ever knowing it.Nuggets: Luke Vibert's Selection is Lo Recordings' stab at the Library Music compilation market. Comprised largely from works by French musicians Nino Nardini, Roger Roger and Eddie Warner (who are also billed as Peter Bonello, Cecil Leuter and Georges Teperino, respectively), Nuggets is a collection of short psychedelic tunes pulling equally from the realms of funk, rock and jazz, with heavy doses of synths and delays. And to help you justify dropping your wellearned dollars, the fine folks at Lo even included Vibert's name on the package. But it's actually more than a marketing ploy. Vibert's actually a pretty logical choice as curator. This is the sort of stuff he's been sampling in his work for years. Apparently, Juicy Luke himself spent a few weeks digging through a series of archives to compile this disc, most of which has never seen release to the general public. Much like Vibert's recordings as Wagon Christ, the music on Nuggets tends to walk that fine line between funky/danceable and toogoofyforitsowngood. And also like his music, there are moments which suffer from mediocrity, but those moments where everything meshes are strong enough to make up for it. Luckily, these tracks are short and wellsequenced enough to make up for any dull moments. Look at the way Epstein and Kraman's utterly silly \"Turkish Delight\" (which consists of a escalating keyboard pattern, scatting vocals manipulated to sound like a child and complimentary synth horns and vibes) comes after the straightforward funk of Richard Demaria's \"Next Episode\" (which seems pulled right out of a Coldcut Solid Steel mix). Or the way Georges Teperino's forward moving 70sactionshowthemesongesque \"Cleopatra\" follows the lazy day introspection of Nardini's 33second \"Soft Bossa\" (which, with softly strummed guitars, warm strings and a lush female vocal, sounds exactly like its name implies) and the repetitive synthlines and drum machine that make up Boneschi Electronic Combo's somewhat boring \"The Bungler.\" Or the way short tracks like Bonello's \"Electronic Track 10,\" David Holland's \"Zouche Drums 3\" (both of which were made with percussion only) and Nardini's cheesy \"Bumbling Along\" break up longer numbers like the Johanna Group's excellent \"Strange Love Action,\" a song that's equal parts acoustic guitar noodling, pseudoMusique Concrètestyle electronic sounds, avantgarde strings, and 70s rock cliché medley. Or Jack Arel/Pierre Dutour's \"Sundown,\" which contrasts the sparseness of strings and handdrums with the fullness of synthgenerated horn, piano and drum fanfares. The best tracks here meld the experimental electronics with decidedly accessible pop music, making the new and foreign approachable. Eddie Warner's \"Telex\" incorporates the beeping of a telegram with a slowbutpleasant pop structure. Built around a simple drum machine pattern, Roger Roger's \"Frantique\" begins and ends with a deep but simple keyboard melody that trades parts with heavily distorted cymbals. But somewhere in the middle, a frantic (eh? eh?) guitar part breaks in, followed by ambient electronic noodling that circles around the effected cymbals for a minute or so before bringing us back to earth. Other tracks try the same trick with less success. \"Pots and Pans,\" by A. King/J. Matthews, seems like a Musique Concrète piece thrown on top of a funk song, with no thought given to where the two parts match. Call it an exercise in Cageian chance music, if you wish. Me, I call it clunky and difficult. Still, most of these tracks are worthwhile, if at times a bit silly. But it's a safe bet that anyone drawn to this disc by Vibert's name won't mind a little kookiness, just as it's a safe bet you've never heard any of these tracks before. Even if, at times, it sounds like you have. "}