{"label":" Fortune","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8340/homepage_large.afb745dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Dark","artist":"Visitor Jim","title":"Visitor Jim","text":" As if the novelty of having an entire band albeit a trio named Jim wasn't enough of an \"angle\" for DIY selfpromotion, this San Francisco band has tacked on a whole maritime mythos to go along with the music. Nevermind that the lyrical content has little to do with the briny deep or the nautical residents thereof. That didn't stop the Jims from decorating their release with images of deep sea diving suits, or writing a backstory about mutinous sea creatures invading the terra firma, to spread their musical message of poprock purism and equal rights for zoo plankton everywhere. Weirdos. The key Jim here is veteran Bayarea songwriter Jim Greer who displays a mastery over the pop song form shared by the likes of Andy Partridge, Eric Burdon and Tom Petty. With three albums of his own behind him, as well as stints in Dr. Octagon and Tipsy, it's easy to get the feeling that Visitor Jim could be just a project band for him, with the other members merely along for the joyride. Especially since the fuel that tends to drive these songs is Greer's wellestablished m.o.: catchy, hooky melodies with one foot in leftfield. It hardly matters, though. Whether just a project, or Greer's main vehicle for future expression, Visitor Jim provides the medium for smart, electrified pop. \"Place of My Own\" is the third song on the disc and the first true sign that a detailoriented approach to pop songwriting can generate some pleasing results. Acoustic guitar, 60s organ, gentle harmonies and atmospheric drumming (first time I've ever used that phrase) gel into a perfect midtempo three minutes and thirtynine seconds. Two songs later enters \"Kill that Jungle\" with its bouncy, offkilter melody and crunching, anthemic guitars. A quirky, memorable chorus and bridge, courtesy of the urchins of Fresno's Roosevelt Elementary School is the centerpiece of the song. Written for radio play in a just world, the song could have propelled Visitor Jim to the big time had it been released in 1994. \"Henry & Holly\" has enough of a minor key jangle and a wistful whine to satisfy fans of early REM. A gentle, easygoing song with a throwback, Beatlesque chorus and early George Harrisonstyle ringing strums for flourish, it's one of the highlights of the disc in a quiet, unassuming way. The instrumental closer, \"The Ballad of Belle and Ruckus,\" starts out with some cluttered soft noise before slipping into a sleazy, glamtinged groove. A simple organ phrase falls into place, adding depth. The song crescendos with the ancient trick of letting everything but the guitar lines suddenly drop out, and then recedes in a short denouement. All very nice, and with nothing so disturbingly odd as to be offputting. However, flaws do appear from time to time. One of the unwelcome vibes persistent throughout Visitor Jim is the overt hinting at the Caucasian groove of the Spin Doctors. It's really only an undercurrent and can safely be ignored by exerting a little conscious effort to do so. This common ground is exemplified on the song \"Success of a Cynic\" which leaves the listener feeling that the band owes as much of a debt to those kinggoofballs of bad rock as they do to the bands that they'd like to regard as their influences and peers. And while none of the songs (even the best ones) are particularly challenging in any way, that doesn't have to be a strike against. I'm not necessarily always up for a challenge. When all is said and done, Visitor Jim might work best as a jadedness litmus. If you can still find a little bit of Forrest Gumpstyle wonder in familiar rock structures and manipulative pop hooks, then Visitor Jim may get some welldeserved rotations on your stereo; if you're so far gone as to ignore any disc that doesn't see its first release as an Icelandic import, you'll probably be left as cold as a frigid postrock soundscape. "}