{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8345/homepage_large.4e17b8af.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Cristian Vogel","title":"Station 55","text":" South American by birth, international in practice, Cristian Vogel makes techno and electronic pop with an experimental bent but with no obvious ties to any genre in particular. Like his sometime collaborator Jamie Lidell (with whom he performs as Super_Collider), Vogel occupies a thoroughly modern field of expression, one that I'd have a hard time denying on artistic grounds even as it seems a world away from what usually passes for \"hip\". Even worse, unlike Lidell, he doesn't trespass into hiphop or blueeyed soul, so there's little chance you're going to hear him without seeking out his recordings. He can usually be found near the epicenter of wherever the most forwardlooking techno is happening (Spain, at the moment), though that doesn't necessarily mean you'll hear his stuff in a lot of clubs. The guy taught modern classical music at the university level for crying out loud. Fittingly, Vogel's music is individualist to a fault. Like spiritual kin Cluster, Mouse on Mars, Asmus Tietchens, or even fellow electroprovocateur Fennesz, he revels in moods that disturb, illuminating his ideas with the darkest shades possible, and yet is ultimately inclusive and alluring. His latest record, Station 55, features collaborations with several vocalists (including an ultracool Kevin Blechdom harmony arrangement on the album's single \"1968, Holes\"), but sounds to me like a singleminded soundtrack of nearfuture Europe. Where previous albums like 1996's Specific Momentific or 1999's Busca Invisibles were bizarre, technocentric takes on experimental music, Station 55 is less bump, more eerie propulsion. Much of the fat has been trimmed, in line with the same wave of minimalism that's fueled techno since its Detroit inception but especially recently via labels like Kompakt, Poker Flat, and Bpitch Control so rather than fill floors, I'd expect this stuff to spark conversation, introspection. The lead track, \"Typewriter of the Dead\", makes no bones about its own lethargy, lurching out of the gate with murky organ and a slow, digital blues shuffle (in fact, when Jim Jarmusch does his scifi flick, he should run this over the opening credits). And then the fun starts: \"The Time Lock\", \"1968, Holes\", and \"On the Line\" comprise a nofrills suite of gothcool good enough for the downest hipsters and smartest DJs alike. And of course, the funky digibass of \"The Time Lock\" or military precision rhythm track on \"1968, Holes\" do wonders for me when I'm driving or reading or thinking about how much I'd like to jet off to Barcelona tonight. All three tunes brim with forward momentum, so it's not like you couldn't dance to them, and in fact they'd thrill the sweaty, dancing masses plopped in the middle of a set of minimal house where anything on either side of them would seem like either a warmup or a comedown. Blechdom's vocals are like daggers though, so use them carefully. \"Neon Underground\" samples a jazz trapset playing contorted samba, and Vogel uses a synth chord progression reminiscent of Boards of Canada or Aphex Twin in ambient mode. Unlike BoC's latest stuff, he forgoes easyontheears resolution in favor of the kind of terminally unraveling, vague tension that got a lot of people interested in IDM in the first place. Likewise, \"Arctic Wolfman\" and \"Turn On, Tune In, Drown Out\" seem calm on the surface, but threaten to implode due to the weight of their own dissonances. It's not that they're \"difficult\" listening per se, rather, their bleak textures juxtaposed with airtight beats (halftime microhiphop and robot house bump, respectively) turn restraint and understatement against themselves. Vogel may hide his musical payoffs beneath a mask of steely experimentation, but rest assured, the emotional tension below the surface is a constant, explosive threat. "}