{"label":" Arborvitae","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8349/homepage_large.64155e05.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Volta Do Mar","title":"At the Speed of Light of Day","text":" We've seen our music come a long way in the last few decades. Could any of the original rock and rollers have foreseen the kind of advances their music would be subject to? It's not just that rock music sounds different now than when it began, but it seems the whole attitude of playing has changed. I've always read about the old rock music being borne of rebellion, and the kind of thing that united otherwise unrelated kids. But, after dozens of movements technological, conceptual and sometimes even cultural today, rock is almost irreparably diverse. Now, most people would say that's a good thing. I would agree with them, to the point that new music can never be bad, in the same way new information can never be bad. Fresh ideas are the symptom of a vital community, and to witness the expansion of rock's reach over its history is indeed inspiring. However, there is a price: chiefly, that when moving forward, often in direct opposition to that which is considered \"standard\" or \"traditional,\" sometimes good things get left behind. I won't hide my biases. I grew up on Beatles and Beach Boys. Whether I like it or not, I've come to expect certain things about music, such as cool melodies, interesting arrangements, and ace musicianship. This is not to say I don't appreciate inspired chaos, but unless I pick up on some inherent will to address (and not necessarily even emphasize) those \"classic\" characteristics, I'm wont to find the music lacking. And this is why Volta Do Mar's latest, At the Speed of Light of Day, is often disappointing. They aren't chaotic, and certainly aren't bad musicians, but something is missing. Chicago's Volta Do Mar play postrock. Whatever your feeling for that terminology, it's now a perfectly legitimate generalization for music that might otherwise get lumped in with secondform prog. This is music that takes all the dexterity and kinetic flash of oldschool progressive rock, but is usually not as overthetop, extroverted or showy (bands like Godspeed You Black Emperor, Mogwai and Explosions in the Sky are exceptions to the rule). Unfortunately, it's often not as interesting, either. You see, my main issue with a band like Volta Do Mar is not that they're too intense and eclectic, but they aren't enough of those things. They don't have melodies. The tunes are long and complicated; not because there are lots of ideas being presented, but as far as I can tell, because the band stretches out their ideas too much, and there always comes a point where I wonder why they keep playing the same stuff over and over. Of course, there's a tradition for that, too. In rock, you need look no further than the original Krautrockers to find examples of how lengthy, repetitive music could be both \"progressive\" and \"rock,\" and yet not be \"progressive rock.\" Maybe that's what Volta Do Mar is going for: some kind of synthesis of, say, Neu and Rush. It just seems that when bands try to combine these disparate influences, they often end up creating music that negates the best qualities of all of it. The album begins with \"The Sound of Day.\" Guitarist Phil Taylor fingerpicks some rather lovely figures on acoustic guitar, which is a nice change from the ultraprocessed sounds postrock bands usually opt for. Soon, an electric guitar enters with a repetitive figure, dissolving to tense jabs. Pounding toms and a deep bass crescendo to a point when the band implodes. Then, with the guitar still jabbing away in the distance, basses in both channels drop a few afterthoughts, and the acoustic guitar comes back. The whole thing is very atmospheric, like watching an oncoming rainstorm. A nice start. Afterwards comes \"7/1000,\" which tries to up the intensity level the volume has increased and the tempo is faster. Drummer Tony Ceraulo, excellent throughout, does his best to inject some life into the tune, which sounds mostly comprised of figures (but not \"riffs\") that are child to Robert Fripp and Adrian Belew's from Disciplineera King Crimson, but retain little of the direction of that music. It leads into the short \"Rock for Nations,\" which adds some straightforward rock groove to the mix. In each case, I could have used more prog and less post, as without real melodies, and lacking very much textural diversity, this stuff begins to get a tad monolithic. The band does kick it into a higher gear elsewhere, on \"Binary Penetration,\" which features some very aggressive drumming and guitar playing (though I still couldn't really call what Taylor is playing \"riffs\"). However, at only 33 seconds in length, the fun is over before it really gets started. More typical is the following tune, \"Quiet Alley and Lonely Terrain,\" which manages to take a hard groove and interesting form and not do anything with them. I would like to say that the band are inventing a new kind of rock where none of the traditional characteristics matter anymore, but mostly I was just waiting for the introduction to be over, and the real song to start. The introduction turned out to be the whole song, and I was left waiting. I should mention that these guys (including duel bassists Mike Baldwin and Jeff Wojtysiak) all sound like excellent players. Again, the fact that they seemingly have so much raw material to work with makes this album a little disappointing. Believe me, I would kill to hear people taking old prog and Krautrock, and turning it into a brand of music that wouldn't necessarily be \"post\" anything, but something new and just as interesting. I'm guessing the members of Volta Do Mar listen to lots of great music. Hopefully, they'll take their passion for playing and transcend the genres to make something altogether inspiring. You never know, someone might compare tomorrow's rock to them. "}