{"label":" Schematic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8355/homepage_large.c92b3ad7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Martelli","artist":"Otto Von Schirach","title":"Chopped Zombie Fungus","text":" For the aloof in the room, the story goes like this: After a devastating crash in which his \"land craft\" was totaled and both of his legs were mangled, Otto Von Schirach awoke, six months later, from a painkiller haze, disoriented and confused. The psychological effects of his trauma drastically altered his approach to music: Less melodic, more chaotic, light on the thoughtful, and heavy on the unbridled subconsciousness. The resulting series of three EPs, collected here as Chopped Zombie Fungus, are residual products of Schirach's \"accident,\" macabre and chaotic threads of intravenous beats and bedpan bass that fold hiphop, booty house and layer upon layer of processed noise into his hospital bedsheets, soaking them in night sweats and urine. That's the story, anyway. The plot. The reality is that lifealtering tragedy has never sounded as good as it does when filtered through Schirach's delusional mind, fabricated or legit. Besides being a fine marriage of product and packaging (both the furry scrotum flipping the bird on the sleeve of the third EP, Earjuice Synthesis and the postapocalyptic hardware warriors on Boombonic Plague, both designed by illustrator AS1, are an essential backdrop), Chopped Zombie Fungus manages to take the most predictable elements of the Schematic sound and frappe it into something tormented and way outside of the box, a sound as frightening and surreal as it is poplockin'. And in almost every instance, that conversion is a success. Chopped Zombie Fungus twitches its way through the dancefloor underworld, rubbing up against gyrating asses and thrusting pelvi as it searches for the Champagne Room, occasionally grabbing the mic and kicking a rancid verse. The Brian Enoesque delivery that Schirach exhibits on \"Earjuice Synthesis (Urinate on MCs)\" becomes increasingly fresh with each listen, a strange singsong that approximates Bodenstandig 2000 with its fractured, atonal rhythm; couplets like, \"Organized bubble bass/ Begin fisting the speaker,\" become deranged manifestos, lurking behind rumbling bass swells and breaks that writhe and twitter like dying millipedes. Nothing here could be classified as sunny, and all things are not as they seem; only David Lynch could have daydreamed \"Pelican Moondance\", a fevered hallucination in which some Sri Lankan ceremonial samba gets wrapped up with an anesthetized, ancient starlet droning \"Bessame Mucho\" until her throat bleeds, and the aggressive new wave stomp of \"Laptops&Martinis;\" is just the right mix of mutilated party anthem and breakneck cut/paste lunacy. \"Whip Me Down\" is less successful, so preoccupied with barking S&M; commands (\"Whip me down/ Make me hurt/ Make me bleed/ Touch my tit\") that its promising ghettotech beats are allowed to wander off into oncoming traffic. But \"Boombonic Plague\" recovers the ball with the grace of a quadriplegic prostitute, cramming in enough cumsoaked booty house and disembodied demon children to rival GGG for sheer sensory perversion. No wonder it's the cut that kicked off the series. If there's a weakness to this compilation, it's not fire or decapitation or a shotgun blast to the dome, but the complete lack of restraint Schirach exhibits on many of the tracks. For sure, all three EPs are a product of frenzied, albeit revelatory, selfindulgence; but when things get out of hand, the listener gets buried alive beneath the studio noodling. The barely together \"Sliced Mucus Farts\" dries up quickly while \"Granny Foot Powder\" falters, suffering from too many aborted passages. I'll admit that it might take me years to decipher what's going on at the recessandThorazine core of \"San Lorenzo\", but it seems like extraneous information, one too many Bmovie sequels. Then again, more than an hour's worth of carnage takes its toll on a man. The sickness of it all leaves you stumped. As any of the undead realize, things are better ripped apart, split into pieces and gnawed at patiently. Taken in pieces, the true depths of Otto Von Schirach's scheme are better comprehended, easier to swallow and easier to flip than skip. The aim of Chopped Zombie Fungus takes time to absorb, and some cuts (like \"Facelift\") suggest eggs being laid under rotting logs, waiting. It's something for which Lucio Fulci and Gescom combined may be no match. This collection is Where the Wild Things Are; only the monsters are horny, hungry, and fighting off Atomic Zombies on the shore of Bikini Beach, amped up on pheromones in Clockwork Orange skivvies. Otto, you done did George Romero proud. "}