{"label":" Twisted Nerve / XL / Beggars","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8362/homepage_large.a3a7e465.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Andy Votel","title":"Styles of the Unexpected EP","text":" Andy Votel has been knocking around the UK blunted beatz scene for a while now, and for the most part, he's not been just another stoner stinking up postproduction studios with antique Adidas purchased online from a Shibuyabased retrochic boutique. Since his 1995 remix of Mr Scruff's \"Sea Mammal,\" Votel has achieved acclaim for turning Badly Drawn Boy from a thriftstore Jamiroquai into an awardwinning George Harrison substitute. Setting aside the arrogance of the title, the seven tracks on this EP offer no great leaps in form, no turning of the tables of the money changers, no brave new vistas for the rest of us clotheared schlubs to follow on wideeyed. The blunted beats here have long since made their way into the vernacular of TRLpop and highcost consumer durable commercials. After a brooding start, the rinkydink Rosemary's Baby melody of \"Urbanite Rocks\" rides through a devastated cityscape where malformed infants cruise around in leperpushed carriages in search of parents, sources of nourishment, and sunlight. \"Girl on a GoPed\" renews Votel's partnership with Jane Weaver in a PramforDidofans style. Weaver kittenishly purrs about a \"slinky little number\" while Votel frames her in chiming glockenspiels, the revving sounds of Vespas, and dollarstore organ lines. The conservatoiretrained, romantically swollen pianist who drops in and out of \"Return of the Spooky Driver\" is stubborn against the blasting surf guitar punks that intend to rid the planet of such academic prettiness. Can the two reconcile their differences? Is this track big enough for both styles? Votel fades the song out with the punks. Who knows where the pianist's body has been dumped? If the Coen Brothers feel like following up the bluegrass adventures of Ulysses Everett McGill, what better theme song could they wish for than the jaunty banjo twang and xylophone clank of \"Pickpocket?\" And the ostentatious production of \"Diode\" allows us a glimpse of what Tortoise might sound like if they recorded for Grand Central. Along identical lines, \"DoeEyed\" is the fuzzy gamelan of Macha packaged for the sneakerconscious. Styles then closes with Lee Gorton's worldweary, workshy, celloaccompanied vocals on the oddly constricted \"RiderBrow.\"Styles of the Unexpected does little to rid me of the notion that Votel's sole intent behind it was to release something anything on 10inch vinyl. Having been recently discovered as God's preferred format for the storage of musical information, Votel likely thought he'd give the Old Man something new to stroke his gray beard to. Knowing that Speaka's far more worthy Bespoke album couldn't be fit on anything less than a 12\", Votel felt as though these seven tunes would ring out as sound as a pound. I don't want to speak for God in this matter after all, he has his own unique ways of displaying favor or annoyance but I'll keep Bespoke spinning long after the socalled Styles of the Unexpected have worn out their meager novelty. "}