{"label":" Loveless","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8363/homepage_large.5b42d0b1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Voyager One","title":"Monster Zero","text":" Monster Zero was one seriously badass monster. Seriously, man, we're talking three vicious heads spewing radioactive gas and a wingspan that would cover most of a suburban housing development; it took both Godzilla and Rodan an entire movie to take this thing on. Also known as Ghidrah, he held unlimited sway over Planet Zero (or Planet X, depending on which translation you're watching), a mysterious world found hiding behind Jupiter, where he terrorized the alien residents into retreating underground. Needless to say, respect is due, and you had better bring something to the table when you're naming your record after this thing. I don't want to hear any demure soft rock or whiny emo band tossing the name around like it doesn't mean anything; Monster Zero could scorch the very earth you walk on with his breath, and your music has to be able to match his legacy to legitimately carry his name. And where many would fail, Voyager One ultimately succeed, crafting an album with a sound just prickly and bombastic enough to do old Ghidrah justice. Guitars with a halflife of about 10,000 years soar and strafe, while Tony Zuniga's drums flatten the landscape. The whole record sounds like it was recorded in an immense cavern, with a dense mix slathered in huge reverb. For most of the album, Voyager One comprises five people generating as much sound as possible, employing loops, keyboards, guitars, samples, voices, horns, cello, and truckloads of drums. You'd never guess this racket was churned up in Seattle; it sounds in every way more like something you'd expect from Oxford or Manchester, right down to the vocals, which have a distinctly British inflection, if not an outright accent. In fact, vocalist Peter Marchese at times seems to consciously avoid a British accent, as though his voice wants to affect one, but he holds back with all his willpower. It's easy to see why that accent would be tempting, as the British have held a neartotal monopoly on this kind of music for nigh on a decade now, and Marchese's head is likely full of Swervedriver, Slowdive, Ride, and My Bloody Valentine melodies.Monster Zero opens and closes floating in space, beginning with the gauzy textures of \"Out in the Marketplace\" and ending in a dead drift out past the solar system's furthest reaches, through asteroids and tiny protoplanets on the guitar haze of \"Praise the Lowered\" and \"Tokyoidaho\". In between, things are much meatier, with stomping extraterrestrial anthems like \"Wires\" and \"Ready. Reset.\" layering heavy guitar effects over insistent bass lines and pounding Bonhamisms. Voyager One delivers a spacerock outing that brings just as much rock as space to your speakers, a balance that's not often achieved. Furthermore, it slaughters their 2000 debut From The New Nation Of Long Shadows, which was already pretty good to begin with. Monster Zero may have been defeated in the end, but he was mighty, and this album is an honorable tribute. "}