{"label":" Gold Standard Laboratories","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8366/homepage_large.062e7d74.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Samir Khan","artist":"Vue","title":"The Death of a Girl EP","text":" Everyone, even the most hoity of music lovers has a conception of what a Big Bad Band should be. Some like the brash trash of the Stooges and the young Rolling Stones. Others like the intricate insanity of crotch exhibitionists like the Jesus Lizard. Some like the fullon badness of mental patients like the Shaggs or Wesley Willis. Like many of the forbearers, Vue assumes the pose of a bad band. Bad in terms of heavy eyeliner, black leather jackets, and cocaine snorted off the backs of assorted groupies backstage. Funtime bad. Kickass bad. Little girllusting bad. Sorry, guys this kind of badness is getting a bit tired as the years go by. But while hardly original, Vue is exceedingly good at replicating the style of music they're attempting. Unlike some rockpunk revivalists that try to get by on leather pants and leopardskin manbras, Vue actually has the chops and attitude to summon some genuinely enjoyable (if fleeting) moments.  From the first track of this EP, the tone is set. \"Child for You\" could be the smashup derby song of the summer (if this was summer), packed with blustery guitar, possessed screaming, and drums that sound like they were played by the world's most slackjawed drummer. \"Hush Your Friend\" rides shotgun in a tank top and pink lipstick, replete with sped up rockabilly beats and horny moans. Eventually, things slow down a bit on \"The Death of a Girl.\" The song begins with a slow, church organ drone as frontman Rex Shelverton wails, Mark Armstyle.  Throughout, the band throws in enough passion and unexpected changes to make it seem worth your time. Aided by thoroughly trashy production that brings out all the right guitar chords, it's all very Bad stuff. I have no suggestions about how to make Vue more original or innovative, but judging from the results of this disc, they'd piss on me if I tried. I suppose that suits most people just fine.  "}