{"label":" Playhouse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8368/homepage_large.4e536099.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Villalobos","title":"Alcachofa","text":" For most of the first 45 seconds of Chilean producer Ricardo Villalobos' debut album Alcachofa the only sound is provided by a vocodered voice. But rather than using that device to turn man into the sheen of a playful disco machine, Villalobos' treated vocal on opener \"Easy Lee\" is murky, weighted down by reverb and doubt. It frequently trails off at the end of words and sentences. It's exhausted. And when the thump and snap of light 4/4 rhythms accompany it, it sounds even more submerged, as if it's trying to keep its head above water. Villalobos approaches the admittedly wide and increasingly nebulous net of techhouse as if 2002 never happened no The Present Lover, no All That Glitters, no Digital Disco, no Total 4. That's certainly not bad, it's just another tangent for this everpulsating sound. The odd thing is that even without getting in touch with his inner pop child, Villalobos has landed in the same general area as the Tied to the 80s retro futurists: a delicate mix of nuance and melody. It's sort of the morningafter or possibly the walk home from the club, the how soon is now? to all of those of shiny, handsaloft nights out. And Villalobos isn't the only producer taking this route. It's also one traveled by Luciano and the suddenly prolific Matthew Dear, whose Ghostly International releases EP1 and EP2, and his upcoming Leave Luck to Heaven album all demonstrate a similar approach to techhouse. The roots of the Villalobos' music which can also be found on his own outstanding mix albums Love Family Trax and Taka Take, Perlon's Superlongevity compilation, and a series of 12inch releases under his own name and as half of Ric y Martin lie in the Kompakt label's ambient beginnings and Basic Channel and the rest of the minimalist Berlin crowd. Like the Berliners, he wades through gurgling, delicate pools of dubby bliss. His mix of groove and nuance seems somehow warm and cold at the same time, a very human expression of somber emotions. Its bittersweet tone is compounded by a blend of the familiar (the selfdeprecating vocals almost direct house of \"What You Say is More Than I Can Say\", the latenight speedway of \"Y.G.H.\") and the unexpected (\"Waiworinao\"'s chugging guitar, the polyrhythmic \"Fools Garden (Black Conga)\"). One setback is that the set misses perhaps his most beloved track, \"808 the Bassqueen\", although that may not have matched the record's tone. What is recycled from previous releases includes \"Dexter\", lifted from Taka Taka, and the aforementioned \"What You Say is More Than I Can Say\", which appears here as an edited version of the track, originally released on the Halma 12inch. One of the few vocal tracks, the meagainsttheworld of \"I Try to Live (Can I Live)\", perhaps best illustrates the hesitancy, doubt, and weariness that drifts through Alcachofa. There and elsewhere throughout the record, Villalobos seems to be seeking comfort and finding it in small moments, in the nooks and crannies of the sound rather the more traditional heartpumping moments explored by many techhouse producers over the past year or so. Instead, at Alcachofa's heart beats a more steady rhythm, pumping out fragile melodies painted with small yet precise brushstrokes. "}