{"label":" GSL","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8371/homepage_large.0c21a104.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"The Vanishing","title":"Songs for Psychotic Children","text":" Fronted by darklystyled, exSubtonix singerbassistsaxophonist Jesse Eva (aka photographer Jesse Trashed), San Francisco's The Vanishing is a guitarless trio whose blend of Gothinflected horrorfilm synthesizers, newwave ratatat drumming, murkily driving bass, and Mike Kelleyesque Children of the Night imagery wades rather predictably within the pools of darkedged 80s dance music. The three ravenhaired demigods have the Look and the Sound, but their obsessive conceptual pose based on stale leftovers of the Sisters of Mercy's semiapocalyptic trope=  falters whenever someone opens their mouth to shout about \"scary\" stuff. On their first fulllength Songs For Psychotic Children, Eva's mostly nonsensical tales of the macabre are redundant and overwrought, her vocal tracks approaching darkness with the subtlety of a fullbody \"Bela Lugosi's Dead\" tattoo. Stylistically, her densely trebled vocals initially bring to mind the beloved warble of earlyperiod Siouxsie, but instead of mixing restraint with the fullthrottle howl, she chants through the album's five vocal tracks with relatively unchanged cadences. Despite the overtly gothic ministrations, Songs For Psychotic Children strikes like a treatise on memory and trauma via allegories of girls with barbed wire teeth, Dorian Gray mirrors, and that old Victorian standard: ballrooms of rotting fruit. Damn! Toned down a bit, these sentiments would be less cartoonish and all the more frightening; I prefer the moments between vocals, the portions less tightly connected to a psychoward cliché. On \"White Walls\" there's much obnoxiously vehement screaming about the lost traces of history buried within whitewashing, but ironically, the ten seconds of fascistic white noise at the end of the track are its most interesting moment, finally burying all that whining in a grave of foreboding feedback. \"Lost in Pictures\" continues the focus on forgotten shadows and the spaces that memories haunt: \\x93Children scream through cellophane, a thin layer of hell/ They suffocate trapped in the last position they fell/ 'We live in the shadows on the floor where we will fall / No one will ever hear our voice because we are so small.'\" So, basically, my grandfather's hard candies come wrapped in a 'thin layer of hell'? That's fucked up. The instrumentals make more sense, or at least hold together better. For listeners who've grown up with a television and access to Stephen King books, the language of horror is firmly ingrained in our psyches and wellenough understood, even on the most corporeal, nonthinking level; we don't need a cheat sheet. On the band's first instrumental (which is untitled), a synthesizer approximates pulsating wind from outside a window while another sprays atmospherics, humming with horror film obviousness. This track aims to evoke a particular setting; for example, an old dark house on a cold rainy night? \"Sighs on Pyres\" is reminiscent of a slowasmolasses \"You Belong To The City\", but as a Gothic reinvention with choirs of Casio keyboards preset to the \"spooky\" sounds. The fastpaced \"Obituary\" the album's strongest track is a Vampiric dance party bringing to mind both OMD and Psychic TV. The final piece on the album (also an untitled instrumental) swivels upon the same windy, sawing synthesizer as the opener, but sounds more spacious, interiority replaced with a sense of notes resting in the air, ungrounded, ready to fly o'er the horizon, the silent ghosts that come to terrorize you softly each night. One of the more interesting aspects of the lessextreme forms of \"evil\" music and the culture that follows are the slippages between the humdrum surroundings of daily existence and the escape into temporary transcendence, to cloveandabsinthescented dance clubs. When too many dark buttons are pushed, selfparody becomes a difficult thing to avoid: it's so much harder to fear something that makes you laugh, unless you're laughing nervously. All in all, for this sort of overdetermined, laughable evil, I'd rather listen to Cradle of Filth; though their approach is equally schlocky, they actually make me nervous. "}