{"label":" GSL","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8375/homepage_large.5b7779dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Vaz","title":"Dying to Meet You","text":" No, not Yaz. Dressed like extras from a Lawrence of Arabia theme park and hiding behind secondhand Roman centurion stylistics, NYC's Vaz are another whitemale duo linked incoherently to Pink & Brown and Lightning Bolt by lazybone critics. Sure, they've shared stages, situate that certain pummeling aesthetic within an obvious sartorial gimmick, and exhibit a notunenjoyable penchant for gliding slippery hands up and down fretboards in the name of airraidsiren squeals, but a more properly obvious comparison might be a hollowedout version of Hammerhead, the middling exAmRep cockrock trio that Vaz's Paul Erickson and Jeff Morridian, Jr. used to be twothirds of. But maybe that's defining a word with another definition. To be more specific, when listening quietly to Dying to Meet You, its aged SSTera vibe unexplainably mustered the panoramic sense of dynamics found in Bitch Magnet. Turning up the speakers, though, Soo Young that gentle bastard was nowhere to be found. In his place were swooning modulations something like Thurston Moore's vocal contributions to Daydream Nation but remixed with ineffable elements of Dinosaur Jr's early guitar wash. Of course, Vaz sound nothing like Dinosaur; it's more a feeling of a particular time hidden somewhere behind the Black Flag adoration. If possible, Vaz crib the generational vibe of Our Band Could Be Your Life by heading sideways through the vocal territories of a more macho Depeche Mode covered by Midwestern punks discovering Joy Division in their first summer of cheep beer and wideeyed discontent. Not mere pranksters despite the gleeful rocking horse winner of the album's cover Vaz don the obtuse black mask of gritty depression with pithy lyricism that tends to focus metaphorically on violent death, macular degeneration, bodily decomposition, and ghosts turning towards blindness. Obsessed, really, with ways of seeing, eyes are mentioned in the lyrics or titles of most of the fourteen tracks: in \"World of Death\", \"shadows freeze eyes upon your face\" and \"it's hard to breathe with crystal lungs,\" and in \"Fired Eye Quit\", \"daylight bends down on red knees\" while \"the twilight strains me in a gray sea.\" Purple prose and a sense of underground USA's formative years are decent punknoir ingredients, and if stronger works like \"They've Won\" and \"Blue Lip Special\" were placed tightly on a seveninch single with the mopey \"Fired Eye Quit\" as the weaker, halftempo Bside, Vaz would escape my censure. But alas and alack! As with many of today's thinly conceived bands and records, the shit loses steam after its first four minutes, after which hookfree stinkers gum up the operation: \"White Wall\"'s subpar Pussy Galore overdrive, the ArabonRadarinspirit dreck of \"Give Us the Creeps\", and the spoken word ArabStrapsansnarrativearc of \"Kill the Strings\" are relatively pointless throwbacks to, well... a lot of boring AmRep bands. Relatively speaking, Vaz are best when tweaking the revvedup artrock guitar swoons of days past. Any deviation from this tightly dated formula is a bore. While it pains me to diss a band who punningly namedrops John Fante, by the end of the set, Vaz is outed as the often tedious, randomly enjoyable band opening for your friends at CBGB's in 1997: they take too long tuning, plow through a muchunloved cover of \"Teenage Riot\", and fade out on a 20minute medley of Cows tunes. You might find a fleeting moment to admire before passing out while talking to a business major from Hoboken who has a green mohawk and \"just loves\" the Didgits. And then again, you might not. "}