{"label":" Sound Ink","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8376/homepage_large.90593473.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"Viktor Vaughn","title":"Vaudeville Villain","text":" MF Doom is an everevolving oddity. Since starting his career spouting bouncy, Brand Nubianesque black power verses with his late brother Subroc and rapper Onyx in the collective KMD, Daniel Dumile has gained weight, smoked hallucinogens, drank libations, and developed a new style to match his rapidly deteriorating voice. Now, in a new arena of arrhythmia and soft beats, MF Doom staggers into a telephone booth somewhere underground and falls out as Viktor Vaughn. A joint project between Doom and SoundInk, Vaudeville Villain's storyline follows the everyday life of supervillain/beat scientist/drug dealer/stickup kid Vik Vaughn. Not surprisingly, it plays out much like any other Metal Face project: Doom's sick flow is tied to a fractured cadence, a slurry, guttural delivery, obscure pop culture references (\"Unfrozen caveman, look over the contracts\") and beautifully simple idioms and metaphors. Although best known for his more whimsical material, this album has Doom frequently coming off like Wu without the pretension, branching out into more evolved song structures (choruses!) and unusually focused topical and narrative tracks. The pieces here run a larger gamut of topics than the shittalking he mastered on Operation: Doomsday. Situations faced by our favorite masked rhymer this side of '93 Ghostface include the courtship of an underage girl (\"Let Me Watch\" with Apani B. Fly Emcee), a drug deal gone horribly awry (\"Lactose and Lecithin\"), an argument with a Chinese restaurant owner (\"Raedawn\") and the hilarious gunning down of a lame open mic night. While most underground emcees are content to rhyme about their intelligence, the evils of commercialism, and the general populace's lack of cognizance, Vik finds the perfect balance between complex songs and simple delivery, never hitting you with guilt trips or preaching to the choir. There's no exaggeration made when you hear someone referring to Metal Face as one of the best writers in rap: \"Modern Day Mugging\" has Doom turning a tired theme like, well, robbing people from a ghetto cliché into a comedic spectacle, delivering a howto for all aspiring thugs and thugettes: He only carries a .45 with \"no bullets, no clip\" that has \"black electrical tape over the hole in the handle\" but still manages to cause a fellow citizen to \"run his chain like an errand.\" After detailing clever breakin methods, he plays the fall guy, getting shot by one of his elderly victims and claiming that he \"woulda let her have it if he had the ammo.\" In another example of Dumile's pen prowess, he teams up with former AntiPop Consortium rhymesayer M. Saayid for a cartoonish recollection of their education (\"Never Dead\"). Doom claims, \"If I don't study, I'ma cheat off Peter Parker,\" and then teams up with schoolmate Saayid to run and gun on a search for Doom's stolen Donkey Kong game. Throughout the course of the song, they buy fireworks and indulge in Guyanese strippers in Chinatown, and Doom finds a guru who teaches him \"that the roach is never dead,\" hypothetically cultivating the future super scientist on which this album is based. Songwriting doesn't often come this lush, detailminded or captivating in hiphop these days, but it's no surprise that the best songs in the genre are coming from an 80s transplant that claims to be \"a really big fan of Dan Aykroyd.\" As expected on an album from one of the current greats, the soundscapes on Vaudeville Villain fail to keep pace with the classic lines being dropped left and right. This is Doom's first album consisting entirely of guest productions, and it quickly becomes apparent that he sounds better over his own work. Relatively unknown producers King Honey, Max Bill, and Heat Sensor offer a cohesive sound, but fail to really hit on a mood that suits Doom's drunken master assault. But there are moments where it all comes together brilliantly: Heat Sensor's \"Raedawn\" is an electronic burner that writhes and lurches like a malfunctioning robot, stuttering out from of a pit of molten drums and sinister bells. King Honey's \"Let Me Watch\" is a pierwalking rockskip across the ocean, equipped with a lumbering, Prince Paulish jazz loop and bassline. Rjd2 also drops by with the album's showstopper: \"Saliva\" delivers a triumphant string section, jubilant vocal sample, and bombastic horns across a subtle breakbeat backdrop. Despite its admittedly slight flaws, Vaudeville Villain goes headtohead with Doom's other 2003 project, King Geedorah's Take Me to Your Leader, for what stands as the hiphop album of the year thus far. Unless his collaboration with Madlib (MadVillain) or his official MF Doom LP on Rhymesayers prove to be flawless ventures, this album will come out not just among the year's greatest, but also among the best in his catalog. "}