{"label":" Luckyhorse","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8380/homepage_large.d19488eb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Morris","artist":"Vells","title":"Vells EP","text":" Good thing it ain't summer. Had I gotten my hands on this disc a few degrees earlier in the year, there's no doubt in my mind this review would have found me impetuously touting the Vells as 2003's Coppertone answer to Oh! Inverted World. And, of course, I'd have been wrong. The six classic pop songs spun here are pure British Invasion byproducts (albeit, shipped straight down from Seattle), despite their misleading pedigree. Glossmaster Phil Ek produced and engineered the disc, whose cast also boasts former Modest Mouse drummer Jeremiah Green alongside a host of jeweleyed indie vets. But perhaps the most salient Shins affinity is the album's undeniable magical enchantment and deftness of touch. For twenty minutes, Tristan Marcum's etherworldly rising harmonies conspire with shiny melodies and steadily bouncing meters to craft perfectly visceral pop songs. It's clear from the start: These songs are about leaving clearcut sonic impressions. \"Light on the Right\" and \"Gun for Gun\" feel like sharing a London Christmas with The Kinks in July. The latter rings in with a few bell touches under Ryan Kraft's chiming guitar before craftily deploying a vibraphone to beef up a midtrack breakdown that pulls at your cheeks. \"Blue, Blue Bones\" delivers a jangling Orbisonreminiscent melody with swiftly shuffling rhythms and vintage pop tones. \"In Sunless Seas\", a twominutelong, comparably dronish affair, adds some edge to the sound, but best serves the record by temporarily breaking its hypnotic spell and highlighting the impact of each singular song, which do flow almost imperceptibly into each other. \"Starlights Our Way\" is as delightfully captivating as anything written this side of the New Pornographers, showcasing the band's ability to pen effortless yet substantive songs. In reaffirmation of the EP's stylistic design, Marcum's lyrics reflect vocal mastery of consonance, assonance, and inflection rather than any calculated message: \"Whyohwhy do skies come tumbling down/ Try we try but there's no wind to be bound/ Mild smiles and days may muddle the wildeyed.\" It's a perfect formula, done with just enough sincerity so as not to come off as flaky and uncommunicative. On the midtempo Hammond organadorned closer, \"The Very Scary Trees\", Marcum similarly stammers, \"If we can find the peaches in the very peary trees/ I'm on my shananana knees.\" And it woawohwohworks. The Vells carve out a comfortable, if not wholly unfamiliar niche, but whether their future course will prove stagnant or expansive is uncertain: The question is whether the band needs to keep swimming in future releases in order to keep from sinking, or if a fulllength of the same stuff will do. For now, this remains a music for all seasons, past and future, no matter where it came from, or where it intends to go. "}