{"label":" Arts & Crafts","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8384/homepage_large.1976ff5f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Valley of the Giants","title":"Westworld","text":" In the 1973 Michael Crichton film, Westworld, Yule Brynner portrays a robot gunslinger at a fantasy themepark where patrons enact their John Wayne dreams in harmless shootouts against mechanized cowboys at least until James Brolin and Richard Benjamin come along, whereupon the computer systems that control the androids malfunction and start killing people. 31 years later, Ontario supergroup Valley of the Giants claim that early entry into the Crichton canon as the inspiration behind their new release on the burgeoning Arts & Crafts label. Unfortunately, like the movie, Westworld the album aims for Clint Eastwood but hits nearer Blazing Saddles except it's not a joke. The Giants mean serious business: If you thought progrock was the most titillating genre since fusion jazz, wait until you hear themed progrock! As the song titles indicate, this album borrows the essence of Crichton camp and injects it into a fictionalized world based loosely around the Old West. Thankfully, the album bears little resemblance to its inspiration, other than that it aspires to epic proportions and falls flat. Valley of the Giants arch back to when men wore spurs and met at high noon to exchange bullets, but fail to capture the suspense inherent in the world they interpolate. Valley of the Giants comprise a crosssection of the hipasshit Canadian instrumental and experimental pop scene. Anthony Seck of Shalabi Effect and Sophie Trudeau of Godspeed You! Black Emperor claim to have brainstormed Westworld in (what else?) an old Ontario farmhouse in the dead of winter. Soon after, Brendan Canning (Broken Social Scene), Charles Spearin (Do Make Say Think), Deidre Smith (Strawberry), and Raoul Tanguey joined them on a runaway train to concept album hell. If anything holds Westworld back, it's the thematic mandates of a concept album. Much of the music is palatable, but the western theme is a malady, as the record's lazy tremolo guitars move at roughly the pace of tumbleweed. The album's eight songs tend to hover around the eight or nineminute mark, with the laborious \"Waiting to Catch a Bullet\" clocking in at an even ten. Sophie Trudeau's influence is at once the album's greatest asset and detractor: Like Godspeed, Valley of the Giants are lost in the ozone and take their sweet time getting from place to place when there actually is a destination but along the way they experiment with lush, atmospheric sounds that at least make the trip endurable. On \"Whaling Tale\", however, the band drops the Stetsons and waxes piscine to produce its most intriguing song. The track features a gently pulsating synthesizer under a spare, reverberating guitar melody, and is punctuated by the sporadic ebb and flow of a stuttering drum beat. On top of the milieu, in wonted Godspeed fashion, an old man recalls a bizarre and oddly moving story of how a penguin is gobbled up by a killer whale. The song is a sure spoiler for a happy mood, and an awkward fit on this otherwise ineffectual album, and exemplifies what these talented musicians could accomplish if they only dropped their obsession with a world that's tricky to portray in any form of modern music without sounding cheeky.Westworld seems like the type of album with which its musicians would be quite satisfied: It accomplishes most of what it attempts to do in deliberate and virtuosic fashion. The crisp production is an unnecessary aid to the deft musicianship, which shows more discipline than most soloafflicted progrock. However, like The Mars Volta's Deloused in the Comatorium, it suffers the gravest of musical illnesses: lackluster content. The songs on Westworld, put simply, just aren't very provocative. Spiraling acoustic guitars lack the dramatic buildup and restraint needed to make their prominent figures interesting, while their driving, amplified counterparts would serve well as a soundtrack for an enraged motorcyclist. Progrock is not and never will be \"hip\"; the members of Valley of the Giants should stick to their roots, and not try to supplant them with indulgent experiments. "}