{"label":" Ninja Tune","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/847/homepage_large.9d021c20.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Bonobo","title":"Animal Magic","text":" For those of you who skipped out of zoology classes to get baked behind the bike sheds, bonobos are a species of chimpanzee. Whereas your regular chimp is a vicious, antagonistic bag of misogynistic rage, the bonobo is a peaceable, femalerespecting soul who loves to have sex just for the fun of it. Bonobos are Pitchfork's kind of primate. So when we received Animal Magic, the debut album by downtempo Brit Simon Green, the 'Fork knew that the collection was bound to get us all superrelaxed and ready for some smooth, sweet loving. So with a several tubs of fresh whipped cream, a punnet of strawberries and a French tickler or two, I set about scoring some love action while assessing Animal Magic. In keeping with his chosen alias, Green never screams, throws tantrums, or is stupid enough to allow primatologists to force him to learn a simple nounpredicate dialect. Green's language is already highly developed though he borrows slightly from previous Ninja Tune releases, he's more in sync with Memphis Industries' Blue States or Broadway Project, and as wryly humorous as Fort Lauderdale.Animal Magic stumbles initially: Green's gaffe is to include one of those hokey masterofceremonies intros in which some suitedandbooted jerkoff intones for the enjoyment of ladies and gentlemen. That schtick got mildewy yonks ago and for perpetuating such a cliché, Green needs to be roundly rebuked. Once the intro is over, none of Animal Magic is impeachable. Though Green sifts through the same thriftstore record bins as Bent, he manages to combine his samples so as to produce tracks that transcend their constituents. In other words, Bonobo avoids the wretched hamfistedness of Lemon Jelly. The bewitching vocal sample that anchors \"Sleepy Seven\" reminds me of Blue States' \"Your Girl.\" Green doesn't make extensive use of the sample, instead dropping it in to subtly spice up his languid groove and melodica lines. \"Dinosaurs\" is appropriately more muscular: Greer selects beats that are less geared to bob heads as to snap necks. But to counter the violence, Green arranges somnolent trombone and sax snippets. The acoustic guitar appeggios and swooshing sounds that begin \"Kota\" remind me of the intricate yet sleepy vibes of my favorite Swiss downtempoer, Seelenluft. During \"Terrapin,\" sitars and subdued strings weave the wordless story of Shiva's horizontal journey to the center of his pleasure zone. \"The Plug\" tells the tale of how Shiva, upon reaching the center of his pleasure zone, begged never to return to the realm of strife and woe, and how he pleaded to remain surrounded by the sounds of gentle cymbal strokes, maracas, strings, and a melody played on an oboeish instrument of ineffable serenity. Though Animal Magic breaks no new ground for chillout, I'm overjoyed that after its initial slip into cliché, Green makes his debut album much greater than the sum of its parts. Green has a real flair for dynamics which, in chill, is a remarkable achievement. Animal Magic is clearly the creation of a musician rather thar that of a zany bricoleur who has absorbed too many broadcasts of \"The Goons.\" With his debut securely a success, it'd be nice to see Greer follow the path of J. Swinscoe's Cinematic Orchestra and apply his composer's abilities to human musicians rather than an array of sound files. Now. May I tempt you with a creamdipped strawberry, sweet thing? "}