{"label":" Loose","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8392/homepage_large.3d5c0946.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Neil Robertson","artist":"Vera Cruise","title":"The Summer of Mars","text":" Vera Cruise aren't tearing down any musical boundaries. Yet another British band appropriating the amateurish DIY clatter and plaidshirted heartache of the American Midwest, the group echoes the sounds of mid1990s U.S. rock, artists reared on the commercial juggernaut of grunge who coupled the distorted dynamics of Nirvana to the more sensitive, rootstinged sound of The Replacements, Pavement, and Uncle Tupelo. To that end, Summer of Mars seems a good decade out of date, but this Scottish act's second fulllength is still a pleasant bit of nostalgia trading. Of course, that's not an impression one would get from its godawful opening title track. With a boneheaded bass riff and frontman Paul Smith's innocuous, saynothing vocals, the band initially seems to be timidly trying to tag themselves onto the tail end of the current garage revival fixation. Not only does it offer a ghastly first impression, it's also incredibly unrepresentative of the album's overall sound. The rest of Summer of Mars is mostly acoustic fare peppered with occasional shards of ampshredding noise. And since Vera Cruise are neither great nor particularly inventive, they wisely rely on their ability to deliver their songs on an emotive level: The slow strum of \"Glaciers\" dressed in slide guitars and close harmonies, with Smith's laconic voice dwelling on past failures (\"I know I did the wrong thing just to be here by your side\") is reminiscent of Being Thereera Wilco. It's this sweetnatured, shirtsleevetugging honesty that stands as the record's finest quality. On the whole, this angle works pretty well. \"This Is a Fuse\" litters lyrics like, \"This is my heart; don't fuck around,\" above tight, Replacementsstyle guitar chords and furious drumming, while \"The Pact\" slowly evolves from sparse and tactless piano chords into a pretty, fullbodied country ballad. Of course, it's hardly a remarkable piece of work, but in the face of tiresome subgrunge dirges like \"Step Right Up and Meet the Lame\", with its shifts from charmless distortion to weaklimbed jangle, and a handful of unremarkable, workmanlike offerings, it fares reasonably well. Judged against a music scene of thrilling, Technicolor diversity, The Summer of Mars simply skulks in the shadows. There are no new ideas, and much of the material here can be sourced back to a few great bands that did it with much more skill, passion, and urgency. Nonetheless, when judged on their own terms, Vera Cruise have produced a good collection of songs full of sunken hope and stained dreams, which manage to swell with empathy and emotion in spite of their trad leanings. "}