{"label":" Camera Obscura","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8395/homepage_large.2deadf09.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Verdure","title":"The Telescope Dreampatterns","text":" Last we heard, Donovan Quinn had teamed with Jewelled Antler Collective's Glenn Donaldson to form bubblegum nature buffs The Skygreen Leopards. To date, that duo's One Thousand Bird Ceremonies remains one of the more understated and addictive slabs of lofi pop to pass through the treehouse this year. Now going it alone as Verdure, Quinn remains within that marblegreen hemisphere, yet, where the Leopards write for the sunniest of Julys, Verdure spins a much more nocturnal cartography. Originally selfreleased on CDR and kept close among friends and associates, The Telescope Dreampatterns has been given a proper CD release by the Australian psych label Camera Obscura. Even before listening to The Telescope Dreampatterns, a mood is established by its lush packaging: Chunky purple trees, moths, and skeletal root systems are rendered in glorious psych fashion on the cover by Dream Magazine's George Parsons. It's nearly as satisfying musically: Opener \"Into the Blacktrees\" merges archaic acidfolk with a properly pained and dusted lyricism, relaying the tale of a shapeshifting dream state: \"I watched you take off your dress/ Lay yourself in the open road/ I didn't know if I should eat your flesh/ Or if I should pray for your soul/ Then you were two bluebirds at once/ And I watched you dancin' in the leaves/ And I watched you all of your life/ 'Til you disappeared into the black trees.\" Quinn's coughsyrup vocal pacing here (and on \"Graveyard Porchlight\") is at times reminiscent of Dylan, but instrumentally, he shies from simple, straightforward folk by wrapping his dense hums and bows with the shade of a mistyeyed Skip Spence, the vibe of countless downerpsych players, and Native American tradition. \"The Greentrees\"' relaxed pacing allows chimes to ring and sustain entirely before dissolving; its interludes are opaque and spacious. Organs drift, inducing a supine, dewy slumber, and when you finally catch a glimpse of these patterns, they feel like timelapse guitar sparkle strummed and courted by Mr. Sandman: Quinn swivels into nightmare territory, but then quickly drifts back to idealized fluffy sheep and mossy hills. Likewise, \"Fluttering Pastures\" recreates its evocative title with Gregorian chants, rising chimes and all sorts of stringed vibrations. \"The Coffin Split in Two\" suggests the rock howl of The Seeds or The Troggs, and it delivers playful birdcalls over extant guitar wail. In other spots, I can pick out Iran guitar walls and Twisted Village chimes. There isn't much vocal and/or musical variation on the record, but this is a somnambulant daytrip, and, as with any level shoegaze plane, the lack of differentiation works to lull you into its zone. Songs don't emerge from some freakout garden in the sky, but pick at Quinn's roots and you'll find tiny blooming strata twisting through the rocky patterns of decay in Parson's landscaping. And the occasional instrumental adds some respite, giving the album the feel of a mystical foundsound field recording. Through every crag, The Telescope Dreampatterns is the ideal immersion tank for watching fireflies collide under graveyard porchlights. Now listen closely as they smear the summer with their woozy deathrattle glow. "}