{"label":" Turquoise Mountain","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8396/homepage_large.38927838.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Volebeats","title":"Country Favorites","text":" Some bands release EPs as stopgaps between albums. Those bands just aren't trying hard enough: Michigan's Volebeats have just released a new fulllength to make the wait for their official followup to 2000's Mosquito Spiral a little more bearable for fans. Comprised of a few rarities, some new studio tracks and six broadly ranging covers, Country Favorites really only lives up to the first half of its title. Still, the originals are mostly strong, and a few of the covers work surprisingly well when recast as oldtime country pop tunes. The oldtime specification is important for The Volebeats their brand of country harks back to the genre's golden age in the 1950s and 60s, with none of the nauseating sheen or gimmicky lyrics of contemporary countrypolitan material. The record opens with a take on the 13th Floor Elevators' \"I Had to Tell You\", tastefully arranged with steel guitar and Jeff Oakes' natural twang. For a country band with wellknown indie rock sensibilities, this isn't really a surprising choice, and their interpretation of the York Brothers' \"Hamtramck Mama\" (named for the Michigan town in which the band formed) is also a natural. On their other covers, The Volebeats reach outside their core sound, taking a lovely stroll through Abba's \"Knowing Me, Knowing You\", which is full of heavily reverberating and lower register guitar lines straight out of an old trucker ballad. They also make what could have been a ridiculous cover of Slayer's \"Die by the Sword\" somewhat credible, slowing it way down and turning it into a sort of Camper Van Beethoven tribute. Serge Gainsbourg's \"Manon\" doesn't fare quite as well in its C&W; surroundings as most of the other covers French with a twang just doesn't really sound right but The Volebeats hold their own on a heavily condensed version of Funkadelic's \"Maggot Brain\". It's difficult to imagine anyone approaching the sheer cathartic power of the original's blistering Eddie Hazel guitar solo, but The Volebeats' woven pedal steel and big, ringing electrics manage to pay surprising respect. It's a radical reinterpretation of the raw source material and a mournful, ironyfree outpouring that serves as the emotional crux of the disc. The Volebeats have three welldeveloped songwriters (Matthew Smith, Jeff Oakes and Bob McCreedy) each of whom has a very distinct style which always bodes well for their original material. Oakes' \"One I Love\" is a classic bigreverb country shuffle: His twangy tenor subtly harmonizes with guest Erika Hoffmann and the guitar twangs with that huge Angelo Badalamenti sound. Bob McCreedy gets three songs in this batch, the best of which is \"Hold On\", with its swaying chorus, swinging bassline and Byrdsy solos. His other two contributions, \"318\" and \"Too Much Love\", don't really get going until their respective choruses, with the arid \"318\" actually sounding a bit out of place amidst the disc's wideopen sound. Smith's songs are the truly odd ducks, though. His best writing has a timeless melancholy and a melodic sensibility straight out of the songwriting factories of the 1960s, and his voice has a twangfree smoothness that sounds great floating in the reverb of \"Standing Next to You\" with the swelling steel guitar. Smith's songs are so well tailored to his voice that it seems odd that Oakes sings his other song, \"Almost Crying\". I could hear Outrageous Cherry, Smith's other band, making this ballad devastating, but here it's not quite as powerful as it could be. On the whole, Country Favorites is an effective grab bag, but don't expect the coherence of an album that's something for which Volebeats fans are going to have to wait. For now, those fans will want to get their hands on this, while others will reap greater rewards checking out The Volebeats' best proper albums Up North, The Sky and the Ocean or Mosquito Spiral, the latter exploring their pop tendencies more fully than any of their other releases. "}