{"label":" Vice","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8397/homepage_large.bfb7fdf3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jonathan Zwickel","artist":"VietNam","title":"The Concrete's Always Grayer on the Other Side of the Street EP","text":" Skater punks, hiphop vegans, frat boys, art geeks, lesbian indie chicks, meshhatted bedroom DJs, listen up: There hasn't been a more influential multimedia reacharound since Grand Royal. I'm talking about the uberhip, postnihilist Vice empire. Birthed as a hilariously/repulsively degenerate magazine, Vice now embodies a film and TV production company, clothing line, and inevitable record label, presumably spawned as a funnel for all the musical effluvium snagged up by the magazine's cultural colander. Perhaps feeling underrepresented by the tongueincheek electrofunk duo Chromeo (halfcomprised of a Vice mag staffer), those cute exCanadians have gone and snagged themselves a jangly guitar duo to balance the roster. Vietnam's debut EP arrived at my door with no press info, no web info, and no prelude. The Polaroid images on the cover could've been taken from the magazine's recent \"Party Issue\" two shaggy dudes with big mustaches offhandedly flicking off the photographer. It's a delicious, Zenlike feeling, not knowing what to expect and expecting nothing. If there's one thing I've learned from years of reading Vice, it's that inconsistency is the norm. I'm wrestling the urge to sum up this EP with a smarmy, shiteating donkey punch, a far cry from the usual upstanding intellectualism this humble weblication is known for. Taboo, yes, but in homage to the muse I'm just gonna say fuck it and swing away, because one lyrical quotation from vocalist/guitarist Michael William, sung through his nose exactly like an exaggerated Jason Pierce, says it all: \"It makes... No diiiifference... To meeee...\" William and guitarist/vocalist Joshua Garrett so perfectly embody the witty, fuckifIcare ambivalence that spikes the copy of Vice magazine that I'm almost waiting for a chime to tell me to turn the page. Over the course of five songs, William and Garrett take turns shamelessly aping the sacred cool of their spacerock forebears (especially Spacemen 3), accompanying their admittedly soulful vocal mimicry on guitars and bass. I'd love to describe this music without comparison, but Vietnam is so selfconsciously imitative they practically beg for a bullet list. Starting with a mellow guitar strum pulled straight from \"Heroin\"'s reverent intro, the album burrows into Velvets melodrama with \"Too Tired\" and continues straight into the 10minute antianthem of \"Makes No Difference\". Both here and later on with the overlong \"Apocalypse\" William's Dylanesque drawl is disquieting, since the delivery is transparent but the words debased (ex. \"As you're lying there; you pull your fuckin' cock so you can prove you're not dead\"). Musically, though, \"Makes No Difference\" is all VU, stretching out over an opiated tambourine pulse that keeps time against a languid, droning guitar that eventually crashes into a heavy reverbed climax. Here, Sterling Morrison and J. Spaceman lock horns in a hopeless, epic battle of influence. But those lyrics, again, just scream postured detachment \"'Cuz baby, this is my life/ And everything else, man, it makes no difference/ To me.\" Garrett takes a turn on the mic with \"Princess\", his lifted Lou Reed photorealism perfectly affecting glam trash lyrics like, \"Well, you see she laid up in bed/ Eightballs dance through her head.\" The talent with these guys lies in the deadon pantomiming of their heroes, and their ability to do it with ridiculous sincerity. Which is somewhat respectable given the accuracy of the shot, and is a novelty for the first couple spins. Gauge your interest by your tolerance for rock 'n' roll voyeurism, selfloathing, and Lower East Side style checking. Like an average experience with Vice, whether you love this stuff, laugh at it, or loathe it naturally depends on how many beers have lubed your motor. For that reason I'd say seeing Vietnam in a crowded, lowceilinged bar with a bottle in hand would yield a much fuller experience than listening to the album in your living room. As of this writing I'm putting down PBR #3, and that fivepointoh rating is starting to feel a little harsh. "}