{"label":" Idea","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8399/homepage_large.081b2b30.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Matt Valentine and Erika Elder","title":"Ragas & Blues","text":" This isn't another one of those \"listening habits have changed postiPod\" reviews, and yet, that's exactly what it is. Matt Valentine and Erika Elder's Ragas & Blues has been sitting under my stylus since last October, a brother to dust and a victim of its own 220gram, difficulttodigitize physicality. That, and I've spent the past six months on a bus between Philly and New York a commute that, for whatever reason, I found better soundtracked by Astor Place mixtapes than dense, freeform Appalachian folk. When I'd return home around 10, I'd try to give Ragas a close listen, sorta dig it but inevitably collapse. I never thought the record was boring (at least any more than other guitar improvisations zing), just a little daunting and very timeconsuming. Funny then that the only luck I've had feeling out the record came as I packed for good. Ragas & Blues still gets schrifted I listen saddled with lastminute tasks, deciding which books I'll bring with me, washing sheets for the pullout couch I'll sleep on until I can afford a mattress, tearing myself apart over whether I should buy a Mac Mini for the time being or sack up until a G5 laptop comes out. A million things are happening, and throughout it I'm thankful for the extent to which Ragas & Blues has been my narcotic. Really, I'm just happy to know records like this can still affect me when I make time for them. Only a year ago, I couldn't get enough of this stuff, warm drones and inscrutable antipop washing over me as I prepared for general exams and master's dissertations. Now I walk an hour in the cold for twentycent dumplings just to save money for rent, enjoying oneliners and beats to make me bang bang bang before high fidelity and thoughtful conversation. One lifestyle's not necessarily better than the other but, for instance, a thoughtful conversation could've saved me the embarrassment of my mother telling me last night that in the word \"folk\", the \"L\" is silent. Yep, like salmon. Last year several people understood neofoke aka freakfoke as the Great Otherworldly Escape from 2004's terrible reality. What a farce. I like Devendra and Joanna and Espers and the Animal Collective and all the Tower Recordings records I finally got to hearing, but they're all fleeting, convenient distractions next to TR members Matt Valentine and Erika Elder's patient and fullfledged invasion. This record's vinylonly for a reason: The duo's Eastern strings and sruti box drones and flutes and occasionally proper blues guitar make sense only with undivided time and wideopen ears which is to say, Ragas & Blues may be the worst iPod album ever. Instead, this is a different, more proactive kind of background music, the kind that, if you want it to, will vacate and occupy you make you disappear. Anyway, now for some cartoons... "}