{"label":" Underground Inc.","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8401/homepage_large.70b695a5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Vanishing Kids","title":"The Selfish Mirror","text":" Remind me again does bigger mean better or do good things come in small packages? Maybe it doesn't matter, since PortlandviaMadison, Wisc., quartet the Vanishing Kids paradoxically encapsulate both clichés. Of course, with industrial journeyman Martin Atkins (whose résumé includes stints with PiL, Killing Joke, and Nine Inch Nails, as well as producing a laughable industrial Christmas album) turning the knobs, the band's goal is clear sculpt a murky leviathan of a postpunk album on par with PiL's Metal Box or the Cure's Pornography. Strangely though, The Selfish Mirror suggests bigness using a small medium, tantamount to Moby Dick performed on a miniature ship inside a glass bottle. Yes, this album flaunts cavernous reverb, booming drum fills, and stratospheric synth splashes, but so does the soundtrack to The Lion King, and certainly no one's throwing \"Hakuna Matata\" onto mixes alongside Loveless tracks. But hey, in a perfect world size doesn't matter, just who you sound like, and the Vanishing Kids definitely choose the right touchstones. Aside from Atkins' occasional nostalgic bursts (does \"Shadow of a Doubt\" really have to sound as crunchy as Killing Joke's \"Requiem\"?), the band maps out an eclectic, albeit threadbare, agenda of 80s new wave, shoegazer, and noise rock. Fortunately, a revolving door policy on vocals and equally skittish song stylings keep this otherwise stale fish relatively fresh. The album's first third finds the band fitting securely in their profound britches. Despite its forceful Geddy Lee/Perry Farrell hybrid vocals, \"Tell Me\" swiftly glides on gloomy basslines and obsequious pleading to, ahem, \"tell me.\" Massive opener \"Shadow of a Doubt\" avoids crumpling under its own weight, instead swelling consistently throughout its sixandahalf minute duration. Unfortunately, the song's slow, ethereal grind and frontman Jason Hartman's breathy vocals only tease as the majority of the album fails to manage the unwieldy aesthetic. The cerebral title track overestimates its fauxMy Bloody Valentine allure, and after eightminute epic \"Snow Angel\" sputters on only 60 seconds worth of ideas, it's clear the Vanishing Kids feel more comfortable with immediate, hooksdriven sprints than languishing dronerock marathons. \"Sleeping Beats\" and the first half of closer \"Talk\" may seem to nonchalantly toss out bits of dancepunk and electropop compared to more deliberate, protracted numbers, but these songs chug along without hitting any musical potholes from start to finish. Fortunately, The Selfish Mirror's shortcomings arise not from poor taste or lack of skill but from unfamiliarity with their own limitations; paying homage to your pet bands is great, but in the end these guys should write what they want to write, not what they want to want to write. "}