{"label":" Dreamworks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8419/homepage_large.f3b695d5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Rufus Wainwright","title":"Poses","text":" Rufus Wainwright has quite the life. After he cut his first demo with producer Pierre Marchand, his father, Canadian folk giant Loudon Wainwright III, passed it on to legendary arranger Van Dyke Parks, who in turn saw that it found its way to Dreamworks executive Lenny Waronker. With a simple glance at the Dreamworks logo on the back of Poses, I trust you can connect the dots for yourself. If only it could be that easy for everyone, right? Oh, wait. I guess I forgot to mention that Rufus Wainwright deserves it. On his 1998 selftitled debut, Wainwright managed to pull together myriad strands and meld them into a grand, cohesive vision. And now, with Poses, he takes that vision and refines it, resulting in an epic album that speaks with grand gestures and a refined eloquence rare in young songwriters. Of course, it never hurts to have a killer cast of collaborators to help you achieve your vision, and Wainwright has certainly assembled one for this record. Drummer Jim Keltner (Elvis Costello, Ry Cooder) returns on the traps, trading off spots with Victor Indrizzo (Chris Cornell, Redd Kross). Paul Weller cohort Pete Wilson mans the bass, and Dennis Farias (Burt Bacharach) provides colorful trumpet accents. Propellerhead Alex Gifford, Ethan Johns (Ryan Adams, Robyn Hitchcock), and Damian LeGassick (Blur) combine for production that veers effortlessly from the dark strings of \"Evil Angel\" to the beatinfused \"Tower of Learning,\" and widely across a lot of terrain in between.Poses opens and closes with the Tin Pan Alley tribute \"Cigarettes and Chocolate Milk,\" recalling some of the Divine Comedy's more playful moments with its ode to subtle addictions and the way our compulsions rule our lives (\"If I should buy jellybeans/ I have to eat them all in just one sitting\"). In between, we get everything from a Ouija board session with the ghost of Jeff Buckley (\"The Consort\") to the faithful and endearing cover of Loudon's classic \"One Man Guy\" that proves Rufus has at least a touch of dad's folk roots in him. The album's title track stands as one of Wainwright's finest songs, with an aching melody and Spartan piano backing. It also illustrates how far his voice has come since his debut. He's become far more expressive in the last few years and his voice is a bit less of an acquired taste than it used to be. The funky \"Shadows\" is coated in thickly layered vocal harmonies that betray a definite debt to vocal jazz, though the swelling strings might sound a little more at home on the Saturday Night Fever soundtrack. Still, it's pretty fantastic stuff, and Rufus takes pains to breathe life into his Frankensteins, never letting them degenerate into limp genre exercises. \"Tower of Learning\" is more impressive still, opening wide up in the second verse over programmed beats in an arrangement that looms over the rest of the album. Barring the reprise of \"Cigarettes and Chocolate Milk,\" Poses is closed on a somber note with the beautifully simple \"In a Graveyard,\" a soulful reflection on moribund themes that momentarily leaves the oboes and strings at the door for a direct hearttoheart with the listener. It's always refreshing to see a recording this singular find its way out the door of a major label, and it's heartening to know that Wainwright probably has a secure home at Dreamworks. With Poses, he proves that he's swinging for the big leagues, and that he has every right to be there. "}