{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8426/homepage_large.9b234a1e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Tom Waits","title":"'Alice' and 'Blood Money'","text":" The abundance of elder tunesmiths keeping it real is enough to make a youngster want to move to an assistedliving community in Florida, get his hobble on, and stand behind a screen door in a cardigan yelling, \"It's my soccer ball now!\" Let's check the oldometer's current readings: Badass: Bob Dylan, Tom Waits, Johnny Cash, Elvis Costello Still Kind of Mildly HalfCool, In a Way: David Bowie, Lou Reed, Iggy Pop, Neil Young, Robert Pollard, Jagger/Richards Why, Why Did You Duet with Rob Thomas and Kid Rock?: Willie Nelson Hack/Dork: Paul McCartney McCartney almost singlehandedly stinks up the whole batch. If only Tom Waits had been given a seat and a microphone beside all those painkillerandvitamingoofy exjock anchors at the Super Bowl halftime show, Waits could have responded to McCartney's \"Wouldn't it be great if, in these patriotic times, the Patriots won?\" blather by howling as he does on one of his two new albums \"Who gives a good goddamn?!\" In fact, Waits' new platters offer three rejoinders to \"Freedom,\" McCartney's banal attempt at a postmillennial momentdefining anthem: \"Misery Is the River of the World,\" \"Everything Goes to Hell,\" and \"We're All Mad Here.\" Tom Waits has been milking the concept of the ramshackle apocalyptic carnival for twenty years now, flaunting a keen otherworldly nostalgia and a preoccupation with freaks that transcends the hell out of Harmony Korine's. In the 80s when everything was measured in 'oodles' and forecasts didn't include a 30% chance of terrorism Waits rescued himself from his role as a clever lounge slouch by going real weird right about the time he hitched himself to Kathleen Brennan, whose influence has grown with each release (she cowrote and coproduced both new albums). Back then, fans of the old Waits cried \"Yoko!\" but let's face it: that barroomsage thing was getting pretty halfhearted. It's difficult not to hear the new song \"Coney Island Baby\" as an ode to Brennan, the psychocircus muse: \"Every night she comes/ To take me out to Dreamland.\" Both of Waits' new discs are their own concept albums, and both are collections of sick Germanic showtunes resulting from overseas theatrical collaborations with Robert Wilson (the man infamous for staging Philip Glass' Einstein on the Beach, and with whom Waits made The Black Rider). Both albums' subjects are headlinefodder: Alice deals with (ahem) (cough) intergenerational desire (reportedly based on Lewis Carroll and the famous little girl whose hand he would squeeze during their walks), while Blood Money (written to accompany the play Woycek) hazards the realm of psychopharmacology via its tale of oldworld medical mindtampering. Waits makes his woebegone statements about the muck of modern life artfully and metaphorically, avoiding the overt outrage that leisureclass sophistos would label tedious. These albums function in Waits' discography the way the film The Man Who Wasn't There fits into the Coen oeuvre: they are selfhomages, full of superceding revisitations, that hone rather than advance. The exotica of Swordfishtrombones, the arch storytelling of Rain Dogs, and the better elements of the hitandmiss Mule Variations are fully realized here, sustained for 91 cohesively transportative minutes of convoluted waltzes and marches. At one point, Waits even plinks the piano bit from \"Innocent When You Dream\" with a winking brio that whispers, \"Ain't I fun?\" Blood Money's clompandstomp and Alice's musty ether represent the osteoporosis of Bone Machine and the senile dementia of The Black Rider, allowed to blossom into terminal malaise. Both albums are further testament that Waits' inner cryptkeeper is getting sharper, combining disparate instruments with calamitous precision and conjuring worlds in which celebrities are born without bodies and razors 'find' throats. The music is so expressive and confident in its spookass vibe that it's flatout cinematic. The instrumentals serve as aural Rorsharchs (the gorgeous violin of \"Fawn\" made me see bugs mating now you try!) and Waits' voice is warmly recorded on each of the pumporganandstandupbass dirges, some of which seem to channel the balconyleaping spirit of a heroinshriveled Chet Baker. The guitar of \"Starving in the Belly of a Whale\" sounds like an animatronic parasite prancing on your spine. \"Lost in the Harbour\" captures the creaky havoc of metal bending to the sea. \"Lullaby\" is a perfect nugget of twilight insecurity, and the nightmare cartoon of \"Kommienezuspadt\" begs for a club mix. Every syllable of \"God's Away on Business\" is a seizure, with the BenHur slaveshiprowing coach pumping the tempo to ramming speed. Those of you who first heard Tom Waits, as I did that is, over lasagna at the house of a juniorhigh teacher with a skin disease who was trying to seduce you will relish the albums' creepy love songs. They shine a morbid light on how most lovepop reduces the world to a consuming need for one magical person, and how often it's a bum swap: the Alice of Alice brings its protagonist an ounce of redemption and a ton of ruin.  Okay, so you might find the voices silly (there's AncientMarineronabender, postpubescent Grover, Goleminatux, and Gungan Boss Hogg). Okay, so this is the first group of Waits songs where the ingredients seem so familiar that listeners feel empowered enough to try to guess the recipe and write their very own Tom Waits Song (I'm talking to you, Joe Henry). Okay, so a moratorium should be imposed on the kiss/bliss rhyme. Okay, so some of the recombinatory stunts of The Man Who Wasn't There felt autopiloted and didn't satisfy as much as the first time you encountered them. Okay, so Anti's copy editor should have to rescue rabbits from cosmetics testing labs to atone for how badly they transcribed and jumbled the lyrics in the booklet. (What gives? I bet Epitaph has a brigade of undergrad interns that sort out each apostrophe in Bad Religion liner notes.) Still, you should be ashamed you bought that Cursive, or Pedro the Lion, or Ladytron CD, and get these. Synthpooh and guitarflarney doesn't have jack on calliopes, marimbas, chamberlains, cellos, and tubas, all of it in classily surreal packaging that screams \"Fuck the Grammys.\" While the rest of pop culture infantilizes itself with cussing puppets and manufactured bands who willfully dangle like marionettes, Waits is serving up vintage brittle fusion and somehow breaking the law of diminishing returns. Something wicked this way hams, and it ain't afraid to be misanthropic and admit that humans are just monkeys trained to parallel park. Come on, you Disney puds, it's time to let Waits and David Lynch do Kafka's Metamorphosis as a musical. "}