{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8427/homepage_large.fc9bc227.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Tom Waits","title":"Real Gone","text":" Tom Waits sings with his eyes closed, face squished tight, arms jerking, elbows popping, his entire body curled small and fetal around the microphone stand. Waits' mouth is barely open, but his ears are perked high, perfectly straight, craning skyward, stretching out: Tom Waits is channeling frequencies that the rest of us cannot hear. In a 2002 interview with GQ's Elizabeth Gilbert, Tom Waits talked forgivingly about his ears, mumbling humbly about an innate, almost inhuman sensitivity to sound. For Waits, the amplification of everyday chatter has long functioned as both a service and a liability, feeding his music and completely screwing up his life. Real Gone, like most of Tom Waits' records, is teeming with all kinds of mysterious noises: clangs and spits, faceless hollers, squawks, irrational toots, notquitehuman coughs, vicious bangs, apologetic whispers. It lurches along like a junkheap jalopy, unsteady and unsafe, bits flying off in every direction, stopping, starting, and bouncing in pain. It hasn't always been this way. Sometime in the early 1980s, Waits stumbled past a mirror, caught a quick glimpse of his knobby mug, and was slapped with a cosmic, kneewobbling epiphany: Tom Waits saw Billy Joel. Waits' subsequent work especially the raucous, circusheavy Rain Dogs, or the glorious Swordfishtrombones established him as a blueribbon eccentric, cranking out perfect antiballads as an antidote to Piano Man temptations. Wife and longtime collaborator Kathleen Brennan (who cowrote and coproduced Real Gone, along with Waits' last eleven records), has sagely proclaimed that all Tom Waits' songs can be easily slapped into one of two categories: Grim Reapers and Grand Weepers. Happily, Real Gone has its share of both although devious preference is, of course, purposefully paid to the former. For Real Gone, Waits ditched his trademark piano and most of his rhythm section, opting instead to cough up manmade beats like hairballs and sputter abrasive scats. Waits relishes his vocal tics and impossibly gnarled pipes, shamelessly savoring his homemade racket, building more and more momentum with each new bark. Unsurprisingly, Waits' sputters can get a bit tiring (they're certainly repetitive), but they ultimately lend his work a weird, organic immediacy, freezing it forever in time he could never make this record again, or at least not in the exact same way. His bursts are too spontaneous, too imperfect which makes Real Gone more about Tom Waits than anything or anyone else. Appropriately, Waits' fingerprints are everywhere; his blood drips from every twist and cackle, his spit soars and splatters. After a few spins of Real Gone, you almost want to wipe your face off. Lyrically, Waits still excels, beating out his peers in both absurdity and grace. Nobody howls warnings quite like Tom Waits, and the deliciously apocalyptic \"Don't Go into That Barn\" features some of his best poetic barbs, cawed as a challenge, confrontational and wicked. Waits is a storyteller in the best campfire tradition, and his cautionary fables are never without the proper exposition (\"Bank since Saginaw Calinda was born/ It's been cotton, soybeans, tobacco and corn/ Behind the porticoed house/ Of a long dead farm/ They found the falling down timbers of a spooky old barn\"). Waits is preoccupied with specifics, never once mewing a vague scenario or untied emotion. His songs may be tremendously bizarre, even ominous but they're always exceptionally real; every character has a pair of trousers to wear, a meal to chew, a task to complete. And there is always a place that Tom Waits thinks it would be best for them to avoid.Real Gone does stumble a bit, with Waits occasionally overindulging his quirks. \"Circus\", a tedious spoken word manifesto layered over muted, lazy horn wails, feels uncommonly stagnant; \"Sins of My Father\", which clocks in at 11 minutes, is unforgivably long. And opener \"Top of the Hill\" remains, somehow, both the best and worst thing you'll hear all year: Waits' grimaced beats, tangled up in themselves, shudder alongside a simple electric guitar melody and a repeated, shrugging request (\"Come and get me on the ride up/ I'm only goin' to the top of the hill\"). The song heaves on even when you think it should stop, growing increasingly breathless by the second, as if Waits really was lumbering uphill, begging you for a lift. And when you finally stop wincing, when you finally pull over and open the door you grin and you dance. "}