{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8443/homepage_large.96d9092a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Al Shipley","artist":"David S. Ware Quartet","title":"Surrendered","text":" There's little more confounding than an album that doesn't even live up to its liner notes. David Fricke's lengthy, idealistic prose that accompanies this album pokes through to my sentimental side just enough to make me want to really embrace Surrendered. The vaguely professed goal to make socalled \"free\" jazz that can pull listeners in on its own merits with no inherent pretension or difficult complexity to intellectualize is enough to make quite a few music lovers feel downright romantic. And what better place than here? The David S. Ware Quartet is a supergroup of the form, and has the chops to back the clout. Matthew Shipp and William Parker are respected bandleaders in their own right and would nary see fit to upstage Ware on his own turf. Guillermo E. Brown's cymbal heavy atmospherics may not size up to his predecessor Susie Ibarra's work on previous Ware Quartet outings, but is capable enough to keep things moving. But in the end, it's the lineup of the Quartet that accounts for its flaws. Ware himself plays so sporadically here that Shipp has no choice but to pick up the slack and virtually hold each song down. Brown is of little help with his busy flourishes and cymbal rolls, often seemingly unaware that any rhythm needs keeping. And Parker's subsonic bass reaches new lows of complete inaudibility, preventing him from effectively making up for the lack of a solid rhythm section. \"Peace Celestial\" begins with a grandiose overturetype opening, and maintains its dull air even when the piece hits its climax. Ware and Shipp plug away at the same simple melody for so long that the subtleties of their improvisation are sunken into a long snore. The short, casual rendition of Charles Lloyd's \"Sweet Georgia Bright\" that follows is a welcome respite from the overblown introduction. But then, frustratingly, \"Theme of Ages\" returns the listener to another long haul of flailing around the same six notes for seven minutes. Toward the record's end, Shipp bangs on some low keys for a brief moment of interest, but it's a case of too little too late. Fittingly, Surrendered's title track is the most effective of the original compositions here. It follows the same ponderous formula as the others, but is incrementally more dynamic, with Parker actually rising up to be heard for a fleeting end passage.Surrendered ends with a 16minute rendition of Beaver Harris' \"African Drums.\" Once again, Shipp's piano is the only constant, with Ware and Brown stretching into as many variations as possible, and Parker barely a presence. But they keep it up long enough that Shipp actually gets a solo, and a rather good one, at that. Eventually, all but the drums drop out, leaving Brown to unravel an interesting but barely comprehensible solo. Fortunately, this clears the air for the tune to build back up with Parker, Shipp and Ware coming in individually and reintroducing the theme, and riding it out to a satisfactory finish. It's good that names like these are indulging in such efforts to forward jazz. But upon further inspection, one is left with the impatient desire for these guys to get down to business and quit theorizing. "}