{"label":" Epitaph","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8454/homepage_large.e199ad79.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"The Weakerthans","title":"Reconstruction Site","text":" It's not the music that's the most notable aspect of Reconstruction Site, the third full length from sensitive Canadian rockers The Weakerthans: it's the album art, by fellow Winnipegian Marcel Dzama. His absurdist rootbeer watercolors connect the quartet to an idiosyncratic landscape inhabited by reclining bears, drably dressed doppelgangers, and people in red without torsos; across the tan expanse, two inscrutable nurses and a guy in a bear suit observe this nap timecummass suicide. Since the mid 90s, this punkrock Joseph Cornell's tiny drawings of dancing trees, angry deer, fatuous alligators, bloody frogs, worrisome amputees, violent elves, and other damaged, often armed characters have accumulated like snow, forming an obsessive cosmology built upon dusty bookstore ephemera. Unfortunately, The Weakerthans' bythebooks music isn't nearly as captivating. Known mostly as a gentler postPropagandhi project, The Weakerthans are fronted by John K. Samson, who during his five years with the leftwing jokesters contributed the bratty pop filler to the band's enjoyably cartoonish agenda. If you were to expand those bits about preteen McCarthyism and Southern Manitoba into an entire pop album, make 'em a bit altcountry, and add a a few more literary references say, an icy dinner with a Derridatoting Michel Foucault, and a song named after a Martin Amis novel in which time plays out backwards you'd have a good idea what Reconstruction Site is all about. Though their critical framework is stuck in the 80s (come on, Scritti Politti did \"Jacques Derrida\" in '82!) the intellectual smarminess is good for a shiny poetic moment here and there. \"(Manifest)\" sports one of my favorite albumopening lines in recent memory; though the song itself implodes along the fault lines of its own cleverness, the distance and intimacy is admirable: \"I want to call requests through heatingvents/ And hear them answered with a whisper, 'No.'\" Aside from a couple other fine oneliners and the soaring trumpet by guest player Rusty Matys, the song's pretty tired. The chords and vocal line show up twice more, with slight variations, as \"(Hospital Vespers)\" and \"(PastDue)\", the latter drenched in John Berger's Ways Of Seeing: \"February always finds you folding local papers open to the faces 'passed away'/ To wonder what they're holding in those hands we're never shown/ The places formal photographs refuse to mention.\" The venerable Greek Chorus, notions of difference/repetition, and communication theory are noted, but if one track is unremarkable the first time around, it just grows irksome thrice! Word? And there are lower points than that triad: the title track sounds like Smash Mouth, \"Time's Arrow\" the Amis song is reminiscent of lightweight All About Chad or some other adolescent twee crud from the mid 90s, and the last third of the album sounds like absolutely nothing at all (which is remarkable in and of itself). On the plus side, Samson pens lyrics from the pointofview of a cynical cat \"Plea From A Cat Named Virtue\" and both \"The Reasons\" and the Frenchinflected \"Our Retired Explorer (Dines With Michel Foucault In Paris, 1961)\" would make finely catchy radio singles for fans of fauxWeezer geek rock. It's also fun discovering wellwrought nuggets amid the dross: lines like \"tune the FM in to static, and pretend that it's the sea\" from the JamesAgree referential \"The Prescience of Dawn\" are fine flourishes for aesthetes and pop romantics alike. Throughout it's fourteen tracks, there's no doubting The Weakerthans are smart guys who keep up with literature and politics, but over the course of an entire album the band's ambitious literary posturing drowns in the bland songwriting and lack of captivating hooks. Perhaps best consumed as a single between Built to Spill and Dismemberment Plan on some smarmy Ivy League college radio show, The Weakerthans need less talk and a lot more pop in their formula. With their soundtrack, I'd much rather read the book. "}