{"label":" Lex","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/854/homepage_large.f73b0951.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Boom Bip","title":"Blue Eyed in the Red Room","text":" There's a growing divide between the rigid, stagnant packaging trends in guitarbased music and the more organic, unencumbered ones in samplebased music. Rock remains shackled to the discrete packets of the album and single, a format that isolates bands and individual works like eggs in a carton. But electronic music is a bowl of commingled yolks, spread over a broad communal surface area comprised of incestuous alliances, plentiful compilations, and proliferating remixes. This collaborative, revisionist sensibility refreshes the genre's vitality. Boom Bip, like many of his peers, has insinuated himself into electronic music by scattered, piecemeal degrees, a process antithetical to indie rock's perception of albumasultimatestatement. Many electronic albums seem like mere fodder, blocks of digital marble to be collectively sculpted and resculpted. As soon as Boom Bip's first LP for Lex, Seed to Sun, was in the can, it was remixed into two EPs Morning and a Day and From Left to Right which were packaged together as Corymb. While Boom Bip's third LP is primed for the same sort of viral mutation as his debut, it finds him working coherently within the album format by pursuing his themes to their logical conclusions. Built from analog instruments, Bryan Hollan's opus (groan) is more firmly rooted in pop than you'd expect especially if you know Boom Bip from the splintering night terrors he created with Doseone on Circle. You're more likely to find understatedly triumphant, NewOrderinminiature synth leads (on the elastically melodic \"The Move\") than cluttered collages and fragmentary ideas. A couple vocal cameos further widen the album's stance: Super Furry Animals' Gruff Rhys lays a hypnotic, layered incantation over the lean, peristaltic drone and clatter of \"Do's and Don't's\", while Nina Nastasia, a gifted vocalist who sounds like a less piercing Joanna Newsom, sings a gorgeous torch song over billowing melodic clouds on \"The Matter (of Our Discussion)\".Blue Eyed in the Red Room is a restful wash of clean, simple lines, unfractured beats, and neontinted melodies. The songs are multiphased and elegantly phrased. Opening track \"Cimple\" deliberately alternates between broad swathes of guitar remindful of M83's latest single, and winnowing, hiccupping sections that are one Ben Gibbard shy of a Postal Service. The dewy electroacoustic progression of \"Dumb Day\" evokes the tumbledown pastorals on Bibio's recently excellent album Fi. I'm sure the remixes of Blue Eyed in a Red Room will be profligate and terrific; but in this instance, the source material itself is well worth your while. "}