{"label":" Matlock","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8475/homepage_large.a6ced400.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"Weights and Measures","title":"Tonight, the Lower Abdominals EP","text":" The older Pitchfork reader might remember the satirical monthly magazine Spy. The really old Pitchfork reader might remember when Spy was actually funny. Spy was an 80s publication all the way, and their sardonic blade was perfectly forged for carving up that particular decade. Once the 90s hit, Spy started to suck, and smarter, more ambitious mags like Might, Vice, and, well, Suck, filled the void.Spy used to have a regular feature called \"Logrolling in Our Time.\" The idea behind the piece was to find examples of two writers criticizing each other's books at the same time, each giving the other a glowing review. You'd find a quote from Tom McGuane, say, going on about what a genius Jim Harrison was, and then next to that would be a quote from Harrison praising to the skies McGuane's latest opus. The idea being that literary criticism was an incestuous, backslapping, onehandwashestheother kind of deal. I bring this up in the context of a Weights and Measures review as a means of full disclosure: I'm pals with the bass player from the band. You might feel like you know him, too, because he's none other than former Pitchfork writer Samir Khan, sworn enemy of folky pub bands from Great Big Sea to shining sea. Like Patti Smith, Neil Tennant and Ira Kaplan before him, Samir decided to leave the glamorous and personally fulfilling world of music criticism for the dull workaday grind of life in a rock band. Or rock bands, I should say, because Samir splits time between the aggro mathrock of Weights and Measures and the quiet, dreamy slowcore of Kepler. Weights and Measures released an eponymous album in 2000, which I enjoyed for its punishing sound and, on \"Skipping School on the First Day,\" the longest betweenriff pause I've ever heard. This song is incredible I can run to the store and get a halfrack of beer in the silence between crunches. Now, the three men from Ottawa return with the short, punchy and satisfying EP, Tonight, the Lower Abdominals. Here we have six instrumental songs that tear by in 14 minutes. Seriously, these tracks book. Catchy and to the point, each basically serves to explore variations on a single wellconstructed riff. Fall is upon us, but this is summer music. In fact, I didn't completely tune into Tonight, The Lower Abdominals until I heard \"The Economics of Looking Good\" blasting out of the factory deck of my Honda Civic, the copious distortion augmented by my seriously clipping 2.5 watts per channel amplifier. The complex drumming is tighter than Mark Knopfler's headband, basslines are fluid and tuneful, and the guitar alternates between jagged postpunk riffing and tense melodic counterpoint. The melodies here are stronger than on the debut, and an overwhelming sense of joy that comes through. Weights and Measures sound like they're having the time of their lives playing this driving, dynamic music, and I thank God and Angus Young (not necessarily in that order) that I live in a country where this music is not considered noise pollution. "}