{"label":" Loosethread","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8495/homepage_large.6f733f42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Christopher Dare","artist":"Western Automatic","title":"It's 1995","text":" Some people just can't appreciate good ambient music. I mean, how many times have you seen Orb albums in the used bins? Orbus Terrarum is one of the best albums I've ever heard an entire ecosystem pressed into the polycarbonate spirals of a compact disc and that doesn't save it from being discarded like so much trash. It's a busy world, and I guess few have the time for a listening experience that involves patience and effort, but they're missing out on one of music's most rewarding pleasures: sublime absorption in a world of sound. As head of the Western Automatic project, Matt Christensen employs techniques similar to the digital minutiae of the Orb. It's 1995, his debut, builds its soundworld on the lazy continental driftings of bass dub and populates it with the filtered fuzzscapes of Pan Sonic. The album's title is deceiving; it was, of course, recorded in 2000. What seem to be wedding pictures fill the sleeves, and the blank swaths of green where faces should be (clearly, an homage to Boards of Canada) leave little clue to the strange title. The minimalist packaging may have contributed to this album slipping notice last year, and it's a shame: this third release on the Loose Thread label is immensely rich and seductive. A refrigeratorlike hum starts \"A Lady Captain\" with a subdued vibe. Fuzzy static germinates, rolling in soft waves as beats start to sprout at the crests. I'm amazed by the sense of narrative development here little beeps and drones guiding the listener along the path whenever the course starts to get repetitive. \"The Gods Hate Kansas\" continues the psychedelic evolution, with echoing keyboard accents spaced out across the terrain. This disc makes different listening environments necessary; you can only truly feel the slow, seismic bass shifts on stereo speakers. Likewise, the brushing cilia at the beginning of \"Painted Doctor\" are best heard with headphones. But beats fade in soon and invigorate all the ambience, keeping it from becoming sterile airport music. Things gets funky later on with \"Soultrain Alaska,\" as a fivenote descending bassline brings pulsing dub revolutions. The pleasing grooves and squirmy keyboards could only be referred to as Lee Scratch Pet Land Perry. Christensen's also not afraid to get abstract. The glacial hulk of \"Queen of Princeton\" fractures from the slomo syncopation of its percussion, as a sea of synthlines undulate underneath. It's difficult, as you're listening to the cybernetic snores of \"Friends of Mine,\" to believe that parts of these songs were recorded live. But Christensen's technique for It's 1995 was to prerecord a number of drone landscapes and then play his keyboard improvisations over the mix. You can detect his impressive human touch on tracks like \"Make a Movie,\" though, as the inversewhirlpoolflow spits up sharp synth jabs and quirky chord progressions. A listen to the entire album reveals these lovely moments, similar to the overlapping organics of Four Tet's instrumentals. So it's doubly frustrating when the end of each track cuts off abruptly and the editing becomes obvious. On other songs, however, the processes set in motion seem beyond human control. The last, \"The Hard Way We Go,\" reverberates like the steady march of an army of ants to the surface. Maybe all of these autonomous rhythms provide a hint as to why Christensen chose to record under the name Western Automatic. It's harder to see why so many critics panned It's 1995 as aural wallpaper, but it's clear the title refers to a time when electronica first started receiving widespread recognition, and it's not difficult to involve yourself in the steady sound of this album's floral awakening. "}