{"label":" Self-Starter Foundation","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8496/homepage_large.f1d59826.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Western Keys","title":"Damage EP","text":" I'm sending you a parallelogram: Filmmaker Paul Thomas Anderson is a heartbarfing amalgam of influences and mimicry (Scorsese, Cassavetes, and every other titan) whose looming maturity promises a masterpiece. Western Keys frontman Ben Dickey is also a heartbarfing amalgam of influences and mimicry (Oberst, Brock, and every other titan) whose looming maturity promises a masterpiece. Anderson's recent relationshipcentric film Punch Drunk Love manages to be overwrought as it underreaches, but it also offers a zesty acknowledgement of the mysteries we are to ourselves. Dickey's new relationshipcentric Damage EP also underovers, but the project is in sore need of mystery. Hailing from Austin, Texas, where the selfmythologizing scene was supposed to be bifurcated into the dusty middleaged singer/songwriter in a buttonup shirt camp and the Roky Erickson/Daniel Johnston amenablenutjob/aberrationprodigy camp, Western Keys is an exciting proposition, the rare nephew of Uncle Tupelo that propels rather than deflates. The fourpiece band's debut throws down a warm, seventrack countrythenrockthenpunkthenpop sampler, a gourmet smorgasbord crammed into a kindergarten snack pack. Homesick keyboards lead into humbly exquisite brush drums. Meandering steel guitars give way to slaughterhouse indierock solos (this whisper/kaboom tactic makes \"Driver Denies\" one of the top sneakuponyou jams of the season). Think heavypastoral. Think rockoutwithyourflockout. But hell, who are these people? Are they R.E.M. getting carjacked by Yo La Tengo outside of a That Dog yard sale (\"Become You\")? Are they the keepers of the Desaparecidos' missing track (\"Please Rock\")? Are they Appendix Out's warbly asses premeditating their quiversnmumblesnwails, but grounded in lovedoom (\"Free\")? Are they a dumber, prepubescent Jonathan Richman crooning about how \"all my friends/ And my best friend/ Sleeps with all my fucking girlfriends,\" as if the line were a comedically earnest epic message of global insight (\"Laughter\")? Or is this just Pinkertonera Weezer and pouty Matt Pond PA teaming up in a suburban basement? Tread patiently: Dickey's voice is initially unforgivable on the leadoff track, so tortureposed and nasal that Drainage seemed like a better title, and the shimmer/crunch production suggested that the dread genre of emofi was being born. Very soon, though, Dickey gets to yellin' and the band gets to shining not that they entirely shed their sense of preciousness. One could argue that Damage is juvenile and microcosmic in the best way, but these folks could use some more expansive lyrics to avoid seeming mired in prolonged adolescence. \"I don't love you anymore\" this and \"it's over\" that, Western Keys could apply its impressively shruggedoff harmonies to more than emotional dandruff. Dickey's band perpetuates the conundrum of the Americana: does that word connote music that is vast/universal or solipsistic/selfinterested? Probably both, if that genre includes both Bob Dylan and Ryan Adams. Let's hope Western Keys evolves beyond their awkward Kirk Cameron stage fast, because they might be onto something big. "}