{"label":" Antiantenna","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8509/homepage_large.cd7befa5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"White Star Line","title":"White Star Line","text":" A trip on the White Star Line only takes fortythree minutes, but it feels like days and days, and no matter how often it seems like it's going somewhere, it never quite leaves the station. Time and again, it shows tremendous promise, shooting for dreamy, slowbuilding psych with the occasional look at upbeat pop songwriting... but this story ends badly; the White Star Line derails among countless stylistic flirtations, and in the end, nothing gets out without being at least somewhat halfassed. The tragedy of it all is that White Star Line often sound like they might be on to something with one genre or another, but by never fully committing, it all just ends up sounding displaced. White Star Line's arrival is so overcooked that it's easy to be fooled \"BBQ\" begins with a lulling acoustic stroll that blossoms into wideopen spaces, and even the fairly gratuitous horn section works briefly. A flawless segue into \"And Fine Wine\" follows, and the expansive sweep of \"BBQ\" explodes into a towering, yet tranquil, blast. The impact of reigning slowcore titans Low is evident in the gentle bombast of these opening tracks, but as quickly as it arrived, it's discarded. Cracker's brooding, western shadow looms over the exceptional \"Sniffer's Row\", the crown jewel of the Line. Bass notes crest and break in waves between the rise and fall of bittersweet choruses, paving the way for a crash of piano and guitar. The doeeyed, plaintive refrains allow Luca Maoloni to display an astoundingly expressive vocal ability that's conspicuously absent elsewhere. The shift in tone and style between the first two and this one is abrupt, but \"Sniffer's Row\" is singularly gripping; it renders the growing identity crisis of the album temporarily forgivable. From here on out, the album steadily loses footing, becoming more and more impenetrable as the band begins to search increasingly frantically for something to which they can anchor their drifting sound. The twominute instrumental of almost unobstructed nearsilence that follows sounds more the like the band huddling up and deciding what to do next than a track meant to contain any worth or meaning. \"'A' Is for 'Arousal'\" is what turns up, and this sixminute epic can't even completely hold itself together the song morphs constantly, though not entirely inexplicably. It's not even really worth mentioning that the song's first half is a direct take on the Silver Jews; by the time the second half opens with the incredibly strained call of, \"White Star Line's for dreeeamers,\" the song has completely broken down. This is the sound of a talented band with a good ear for melody who has no idea what they actually sound like. If the band could have hit a few more showstoppers like \"Sniffer's Row\", this wouldn't even be a concern. Sadly, nothing else approaches it, and the fact that none of these songs can really unify into a whole leaves all of them out there to fend for themselves, which they're illequipped to do. \"Bowels of a Bummer\" is the single most disappointing reminder of their inability to nail anything down even though it's probably the secondbest song on the record, it punctuates the album like a massive, festering question mark asking \"Why?\". Maybe White Star's next trip around the block will provide a response. "}