{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8522/homepage_large.7e6a6d1d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cameron Macdonald","artist":"Keith Fullerton Whitman","title":"Schöner Flußengel","text":" Electronic music needs amateur ornithologists like Master Whitman. Artists who emulate the standard, escapefromcivilization allure of birdsong and then abruptly make an aboutface to mimic a scrambling flock's ackackacks are mavericks in any man's English. Whitman's Hrvatski guise sets that example with nearbipolar mood swings between Pollackian \"Amen\" breakbeats and guitar balladry that falls asleep at the wheel. Whitman's work under his given name also has an avian nature: Our man's processedguitar masterwork, \"Feedback Zwei\", seems like a conversation between two sparrows bickering over a suburban stucco hut village that paved over their habitat and spared a few oaks for decoration. To truly know this man's passion, check out his closemic recordings of birds gorging at his backyard feeder on Birdsightings it's edited from six hours of field work. This aesthetic is the Samson's Hair of Whitman's Schöner Flu\\xDFengel, a vinylonly album that's limited to a commercialdamning 1,000 copies. The record cover's depiction of a medieval cathedral aglow with phantasmagoric flames pays homage to the gothic pretensions of 1980s progmetal. Yet, the music is more introspective and spiritually awake than wanky guitar solos and screaming about good times in the Lake of Fire. Schöner's skeleton was pieced together with telephone switchboardlike modular synthesizers at Harvard, where Whitman guestlectured on electronic music. The result generally expands the kraut drone 'n' freakout element he explored on Antithesis. The album is best heard in one sitting its fractured tracks don't individually stand on both feet. Whitman sticks to a narrow palate of circular acoustic guitar harmonies dueling in stereo, hymnal organ timbres, softboiled percussion, and laser noises mulched into sawdust. Most of the seven tracks are patterned into birdsong meditation, flock violence disruption, and bewilderment before reprising the spiritual calm. In other words, it's like witnessing the world seemingly falling to pieces but feeling assured that everything would turn out okay in the end. The opener, \"Lixus Analogique\", sets that template by leashing down poltergeistlike bedsprings that echo about the house. A guitar tiptoes in and a snareroll builds the tension into a climax of a fumigating laservacuum and roiling improv beats. The German compound wordabusing \"Bewusstseinserweiternd\" eases in a nasal ohm chant that blooms like ink in water with clarinet and organ drones before the squealing frequencies. That image also festers in \"Interlude\", with motorcycled analog synths that loosely recall Throbbing Gristle's \"Hamburger Lady\". \"Gravicembalo\" toys with tapped bass guitar strings that shout into the fog before a somber organ lets the twilight in and melts the cathedral down into 0s and 1s.Schöner's best moments are its few Rubix Cuberotating, glitch grooves. That element hypnotizes like rooftop rain midway through \"El Seny La Rauxa\", before getting interrupted by... well, you know the routine. \"Weiter\" breathes deeply with that same sense of groove, but does so on a Rhodes and, in contrast, the lasers grow rather tiresome after 20 minutes. At their worst, they bequeath a savage tackiness when mixed with God's Country folk guitar tunes. \"Lixus Numerique\" suffers from this kitsch, recalling the Me Decade's televised prog/newage performances that try to touch viewers with bluescreen graphics of streaming stars. The sight of John Lennon sighing his \"biofeedback\" with David Rosenbloom's scanner strapped to his brain on \"The Mike Douglas Show\" comes to mind. But on the whole, I have to hand it to Whitman for concocting a soundscape that grows less alien and more serene with each listen: Schöner is a beast that won't leave your bedroom months after you stop playing the music. "}