{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8524/homepage_large.2308cd36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Keith Fullerton Whitman","title":"Multiples","text":" Last November Sub Rosa released An Anthology of Noise & Electronic Music: Third AChronology, the label's latest 2xCD document of the history of electronic music. Tucked between tracks by capitalC Composers like Bernard Parmegiani and Ilhan Mimaroglu was Keith Whitman's \"Stereo Music For Serge Modular Prototype\", recorded in 2003 and also included here on Multiples. That Whitman was included among pioneers like Parmegiani wasn't unusual given the vision of Sub Rosa's compilation; label founder Guy Marc Hinant explicitly sets out to explore connections between early electronics composers and artists working today (which isn't always to the good Vol. 3 contains a lame Hotel Morgan outtake from To Rococo Rot). But the circumstances surrounding the creation of \"Stereo Music For Serge Modular Prototype\" made it an interesting choice for inclusion. The piece, like this album, was recorded primarily on vintage equipment at Harvard University's Studio for ElectroAcoustic Composition, in which Whitman set up shop during a teaching residency. Electronic music was born and raised in academia in part because only large research institutions could afford the machinery. Most early electronic composers had either a university or government appointment and electronic music was seen as an extension of developments in \"serious\" classical music. Whitman on the other hand came on the scene working as Hrvatski in the late 199,0s making aggressive drum'n'bass, a streetlevel form originally assembled using the cheapest tools. There's something fascinating about a musician weaned on home computers returning to a grand old school sound laboratory. Not sure if it's intentional, but the sequence of Multiples mirrors developments in electronic music in the second half the 20th Century. On the album's first few tracks the music has an antiquated air, the creaks and drones touching on subconscious associations with midcentury futurism, a time when we figured technology would eventually solve all our problems. Early tracks reference the exploratory roots of the genre, with an emphasis on abrupt dynamic shifts and timbres that reflect the physical properties of electricity. As with David Toop's book Ocean of Sound, it all starts with the gamelan. \"Stereo Music for HiHat\" takes the resonance of a cymbal and slows it to gong speed, conveying the ritual of the Javanese form with clouds of metallic harmonics that seem to hang in the air. Parts one and three of \"Stereo Music for Serge Modular Prototype\" use a sound palette pulled Pierre Schaeffer et al., at the RadiodiffusionTelevision Francaise, with white noise electrowind and jarring squelches from outer space that allow you to see knobs being twisted by human hands. These are the sounds that sent scifi film composers in search of the future of music. By the time we get to \"Stereo Music for Yamaha Disklavier Prototype\" Multiples hits its minimalism phase, as an opening burse of noise dissolves into a looped series of piano notes that brings immediately to mind Steve Reich's late60s phase pieces. The influence of Reich, Glass and Riley is everywhere in the last ten years, obviously, but \"...Yamaha Disklavier Prototype\" is a neat demonstration of how Whitman is able to put such familiar influences to original use. As the piece builds and the layers of piano begin to overlap he introduces a subtle melancholy melody that starts low but eventually overwhelms the loops. Though its roots come from carefully applied formalism, the piece develops a tactile theatrical drama. \"Stereo Music for Farfisa Compact Duo Deluxe, Drum Kit\" has the same sort of neotribal Popol Vuh feel as the Antithesis EP's \"Schnee\", using a dark, gothic organ a simple drum groove, and then Whitman saves the best for last with the twopart \"Stereo Music for Acoustic Guitar, Buchla Music Box 100, Hewlett Packaard Model 236 Oscillator, Electric Guitar and Computer.\" The tracks flow one into the next over the course of 16 minutes, moving from the minimalism hinted at earlier in the record into a sublime distillation of the possibilities in modern signal processing. Another repetitive melodic pattern, this time on acoustic guitar, gradually transforms into a primordial soup of computer bleeps, clicks, and eventually, thin tendrils of gauzy drone. Here forbearers are Markus Popp and Nobukazu Takemura, though again Whitman's spin is carefully designed to maximize emotional impact. The tail end of this long piece is the most purely beautiful five minutes of sound I've heard in a couple years at least. Throughout the record Whitman, while using the hardware and approach of early electronic masters, has a songwriter's ear for structure and a commitment to human warmth. Whatever their vintage, these machines sing. "}