{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8525/homepage_large.379905c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Keith Fullerton Whitman","title":"Lisbon","text":" All art based in time has a trajectory. In music, consideration of trajectory is most crucial during long stretches of uninterrupted sound. Anything requiring attention for 20, 30, 40 minutes or more a DJ set, say needs a logical structure, a steady payout of inducements to encourage the listener to maintain focus. Listening to Lisbon, which documents an October 2005 performance at the Galeria Zé Dos Bois in the Portuguese capitol, I get the idea Keith Whitman has done some thinking about structure. Here he uses the tools (guitar, processed via computer) and palette (an emphasis on slowly shifting drone) first brought to bear on his 2002 album Playthroughs, and extends them to suit a longform piece. The opening few minutes are close to \"Track3a (2waynice)\" from Playthroughs, with clean tendrils of drone only marginally more harmonically complex than a sine wave undulating in space like a Chinese dragon kite. Whitman gradually folds in additional layers and hints of counterpoint, from organlike chords, soft bells, and an assortment of subtle glitches. The placid ramp upward lasts 13 minutes, and then harsh chords creep in. From there it's a steady plow into dissonance, as sheets of noise are piled on and most traces of pleasantness are left behind. Had it started somewhere heavier, the knotty bass (please don't listen on computer speakers) churning away at the 20minute mark would have long grown tiring. But after the crystalline foundation of the piece's first quarter, the snarling ugliness proceeds with an undercurrent of poignancy, magnified emotionally through careful arrangement. Heard loud, filling a room, Lisbon can be a little overwhelming. The climax comes about threefourths of the way in, around 27 minutes, where the gritty outer layer has been shed and the drone conjures images of a metaphysical ascension through clouds. A minute later, the engines cut out and it falls toward earth in a tumble of creaking furniture, blown fuses, and bent sprockets. Apparently, Whitman had microphones placed throughout the space to capture ambient noise, and he devised a patch to process it and add it to the mix. After the purely electronic immersion the live room sounds are jarring, but the piece quickly reassembles itself for a noisy sprint to the finish, with coarse sawtooth waves sparking fountains of harmonics. A wispy finish gives the piece a circular quality, ending very near the serene opening. It's a 41minute piece that, like Fennesz' Live in Japan, doesn't make much sense cut into smaller segments. The time commitment is an obstacle, but the payoff is substantial. It comes back to the trajectory. When I picture a successful longform laptop set, the perfect arc is something launched low 35 degrees, say with great force and a heavy wind coefficient so the piece dies quickly after reaching its expressive peak. Whitman here has followed it to the letter, constructing a riveting piece of music with the organic drama of a threeact play. "}