{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8529/homepage_large.d7259d35.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"WHY?","title":"Oaklandazulasylum","text":" Here's a record by a hiphop emcee who spends half the album hunched over a guitar, daring to slum it as a bedroom songwriter. As a member of Anticon the hiphop collective that bleeds at will into other genres it's no surprise for Why? (born Jonathan Wolf) to mix in live instruments or write straightup songs; he already matched guitar with beats on Miss Ohio's Nameless, and you could call his half of Split EP a kind of song cycle. And yet every time I throw on Oaklandazulasylum it still sounds like the damnedest thing: surprising, confusing, and so wrong it's right. Ever since Why?, Odd Nosdam and Doseone cut their cLOUDDEAD fulllength still their biggest claim to fame outside the hiphop world they've been under the gun to cut records that are not only as fucked up as their breakthrough, but as fullyrealized, albums where the artists drown you in their desparately individual voices, instead of just passing by in a flash of cleverness. For Why?, Oaklandazulasylum is the first disc since cLOUDDEAD that pulls it off. Producers Odd Nosdam and Jel make guest appearances, but for most of the disc it's Why? who chops up song structure and shuffles arrangements from track to track, finetuning the music from every angle. And from the first song it sounds rich and original, with the guitar, simple percussion and blatting horns that start \"Ferris Wheel\" before it segues to beats and blippy electronics. Why? straddles both camps with total ease. The closest comparison I can make is to The Books' Thought for Food and its similarly organic (and gorgeously captured) mix of samplebased and acoustic music. Plenty of songwriters back their strumming with drum machines, but Why?'s not diddling with digital perfection: these are heavy, multilayered beats, some lofi and crunchy and others high, bright and almost piercing. On that note, there is a very slight downer, which is that Why?'s vocals may be hard for some to take, a nasal drawl that hits somewhere between Soul Coughing's M. Doughty and They Might Be Giants' John Linnell. I'm not a big fan of Doughty or Linnell myself; fortunately, Why?'s tone isn't nearly as extreme (and certainly not as quirky) as either, and was never enough to distract me from his most impressive performances, or this record's remarkable uniqueness. Why? switches from rhythmic delivery to naked singing, sometimes on a dime. The slight nasal quality of his voice sounds so awkward that he can't help but play it up \"Dream on Costelyou\" sounds so unmelodic you can't even believe they let this guy sing but witness the brilliantly jerkedout delivery on \"Early Whitney\", where he treats the syllables like a set of steps to jog over. The almost grotesque, overdubbed harmonies at the end of \"Weak Moon\" sound so warped that they bend your eardrum, but they're perfectly on pitch, and when he turns to a genuinely tuneful voice later on, it doesn't come as a total surprise. On technical terms this may be Why?'s bestrealized recording, not to mention the most startling album Anticon has dropped this year. But the biggest surprise is how engaging it is and how much more you connect with Why? after hearing it. All of the cutup collages and lofi tapes in his prior work were incredibly scattershot, full of distractions that kept his ideas from sticking around. I can think of more classic Why? lines than full Why? songs, let alone albums. But this record fleshes out the seemingly nonsequitor lyrics, and makes them resonate.  I've ribbed the Anticon artists for their habitual memoirwriting, which, coupled with their surreal left turns can become a nonstop emotional revealandfeint. This time, instead of just dropping clever lines about his dad, he writes \"Afterschool America\", a song so tuneful and lyrically rich it's difficult to imagine how he fit in everything in a minute and a half. Why?'s geeky personality becomes human, and when he states, \"I'm not myself without my Challenger commemorative button on my brown down vest,\" I can picture the dorky kid who would obsess about a piece of clothing hell, I was that dork, too. When he spits out lines like, \"Kissing me is a waste of your saliva,\" I can empathize with him for the first time ever. The last few songs grow murky, and don't introduce much that we haven't already heard, and the second side definitely lacks the lockedtogether flow of the first, but Oaklandazulasylum succeeds where it counts. It's as major a step as you'd expect really, as you'd demand from someone like Why?, not only for its sheer inventiveness, but the continuity that turns these lyrical snapshots into moving portraits, of urban neighborhoods, halfunderstood women, and most of all, Why? himself, as a kid, a misfit, and an artist.  "}