{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8531/homepage_large.793356a6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"WHY?","title":"Elephant Eyelash","text":" I'll admit that I didn't \"get\" Why? on his early records, like that split EP with Odd Nosdam from 2001, where his puzzling lyrics and images are as fragmented as the clips of music he samples. It was like listening to the kids outside your window who are locked into their own injokes and use their own slang for sex acts: I just figured, you either get it or you're out. Somehow, his fartherout colleague and cLOUDDEAD partner Doseone was easier to follow, maybe because his jester act steers you more directly to his heart. Dose has said about Why?, \"I met him at 18 and he was 40.\" And you get that vibe from Why?, aka Yoni Wolf, more on every album. On Elephant Eyelash, Why? has moved even closer to using plain old song forms and he formed a live band to play them that includes Wolf's brother Josiah on drums, guitarist Matt Meldon, and Doug McDiarmid on anything else. Recorded in DIY lofi, they have better chemisty than when they debuted on the Sanddollars EP earlier this year. In fact, Wolf shrugged off his Why? alias and turned it into the name of his band which may violate the HipHop Local 712 union regulations, but what the hey, they're underground. In fact, forget about whether Wolf's career belongs in hiphop or indie rock or janglepsych or whatever: By now his music has oozed so far away from a clearcut genre that the whoompa beats he's sometimes fond of could have been inspired by polka. The same goes for his fullydeveloped, fullyoriginal vocals. His speaksinging lays packages of words one after another with attention to every syllable, dropping them in sequence like he's laying a stone path. But his pop songs showcase his singing, which starts off like he's reading his journal to a bored girlfriend, then takes flight in an impassioned croon.Elephant Eyelash sounds less crisp and less striking than the folkplusbeats arrangements of 2003's Oaklandazurasylum, but it brings more heart; where that earlier album's lyrics crackled with the anxiety of beating yourself up after a bad day at school, Elephant Eyelash soars like the last songs on prom night.You'll still puzzle over the lyrics Wolf says he's writing about a breakup, though don't let that limit your imagination but the emotional intent is blindingly clear. The music pours and soars over the splintered images, like on 'Sanddollars, which uses a triumphantly conventional pop anthem to make its chorus sound like a mountaintop declaration: \"These are selfish times/I've got shellfish dimes/ And sanddollars.\" Yet he tops that with the huge, heartpounding piano chords on \"Rubber Traits\", which propel him as he belts: \"Unfold an origami death mask/ And cut my DNA with rubber traits/ Pull apart the double helix like a wishbone/ Always be working on a suicide note.\" And I finally understand how he feels. "}