{"label":" Nonesuch","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8535/homepage_large.4e271f32.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brent S. Sirota","artist":"Wilco","title":"Yankee Hotel Foxtrot","text":" Myth, it has been said, is the buried part of every story. On April 23rd, Yankee Hotel Foxtrot finally emerges into the light of day, having spent the last year interred in its own cluttered mythology: a hermetic studio gestation, with the inscrutable guidance of Chicago expat/kindly wizard, Jim O'Rourke; internecine squabbles; conflict and resolution with American media behemoth AOL Time Warner; the release portentously slated for September 11th, but mysteriously delayed; the indecipherable shortwave radio prophecies; and, eventually, the hero's welcome, with the first stirrings of spring. It's all there: the miracle birth; the unlikely hero; the, um, benevolent mentor; the primordial menace; good over evil. Joseph Campbell would be pissing himself if he weren't dead. The miraculous birth narrative of Wilco's fourth album, Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, is already old hat: banished from straightedge AOL Time Warner imprint Reprise on the cosmically shortsighted judgment of label executives who deemed the album a \"careerender,\" Wilco streamed Yankee Hotel from its leftwing website to millions before signing with weirdo progressive AOL Time Warner imprint Nonesuch. Long is the way and hard that leads up from AOL Time Warner into the light, I guess. But the unique circumstances of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot's long deliverance make for more than just pointless disc jockey chatter before spinning \"Heavy Metal Drummer.\" The long delay and streaming audio conspired to ensure that everyone in the world has already heard Yankee Hotel Foxtrot in part, if not in its entirety. Vast digital precirculation, corporate controversy, and buzz like a beard of bees have rendered all reviews afterthoughts at best. But myth is always an afterthought, and these days, the motif I like chewing on best is, without question, that of the Unlikely Hero. Who would have predicted an album of this magnitude from Wilco? As much I love the band, the fact remains that they were together for five years before they produced anything that could stand with Uncle Tupelo's March 1620, 1992 or Anodyne. AM is rather forgettable, while the expansive Being There, though frequently inspired, travels on paths blazed by Tom Petty on Damn the Torpedoes, if not The Flying Burrito Brothers. 1999's dolorous Summerteeth was exponentially more sophisticated than anything that came before it, though its heroin innuendoes, shades of domestic abuse and nocturnal homicidal impulses sat somewhat ill at ease alongside the album's lush and infectious pop arrangements. Of course, Summerteeth was a strange and majestic, albeit dark, deviation from the altcountry genre Jeff Tweedy coinvented. But since Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, it has retroactively become more of a harbinger of things to come. Upon being pressed by the Chicago SunTimes about abandoning altcountry, Tweedy dismissively bequeathed the old Wilco sound to Ryan Adams. And you can never go home again. So does Yankee Hotel Foxtrot justify the controversy, delay and buzz? Everyone, I think, already knows that the answer is yes; all I can offer is \"me too\" and reiterate. And after half a year living with a bootleg copy, the music remains revelatory. Complex and dangerously catchy, lyrically sophisticated and provocative, noisy and somehow serene, Wilco's aging new album is simply a masterpiece; it is equally magnificent in headphones, cars and parties. And as anyone who's seen the mixedbag crowd at Wilco shows knows, it will find a home in the collections of hippies, frat boys, acideating prep schoolers, and the record store apparatchiks of the indiocracy. No one is too good for this album; it is better than all of us. But for all the talk of terminally hip influences Jim O'Rourke, krautrock, and The Conet Project Yankee Hotel Foxtrot still conjures a classic rock radio station on Fourth of July weekend. And this extends beyond the alternating Byrds/Stones/Beatles comparisons that pepper every Wilco review ever written; Yankee Hotel Foxtrot evokes Steely Dan, the Eagles, Wings, Derek & The Dominos and Traffic. The slightly disconnected, pianoled \"I Am Trying to Break Your Heart,\" is delicately laced with noise, whistles and percussive clutter, like some great grandson of \"A Day in the Life.\" The muted, \"Kamera\" strums along darkly with acoustic and electric guitars; the twittering electronics in the background don't quite mitigate the tune's comparability to the clever and precise (though now largely neglected) jazzinflected bluesrock of Dire Straits' stunning debut. The conefiltered and anthemic country psychedelia of \"War on War\" could have been jammed straight out of a hot \"Bertha\" at a 1973 Grateful Dead show. The violin and cokedup country lounge of \"Jesus, etc.\" recalls some mythical seventies in true love and cigarettes. The sharp, stuttering guitar solo that rips open \"I'm the Man Who Loves You\" could have come directly out of Neil Young's hollow body electric circa Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere. For all its aural depth and layering, Yankee Hotel tends to come off as earnest as yesteryear's FM radio. Wilco gets the benefit of O'Rourke's gift for cutting straight to the guts of every style, without the burden of his trademark contempt for the subject matter at hand. And Tweedy seems to be coming into his own as a lyricist. I still wince when I hear him sing, \"I know you don't talk much but you're such a good talker,\" on Being There. The brooding introspection of Summerteeth made for a handful of elegant lyrics, most notably the skeletal beauty of \"She's a Jar,\" where \"she begs me not to miss her\" returns as the stinging \"she begs me not to hit her,\" transforming a wistful love song into something gently bruising. But on Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, Tweedy becomes what I think he always was: an optimist and a romantic. His declaration of wanting to salute \"the ashes of American flags,\" is less cynicism than, perhaps, the devoted liberal's nostalgia for an honest patriotism (check out the array of properly lefty links at wilcoworld.com if you don't believe me). \"All my lies are always wishes,\" he sings, \"I know I would die if I could come back new.\" In \"Jesus, etc.,\" there's a cascading simplicity when he sings, \"Tall buildings shake, voices escape, singing sad, sad songs to two chords/ Strung down your cheeks, bitter melodies turning your orbit around.\" Sad, celestial and lovely. The final declaration on Yankee Hotel Foxtrot is one of abiding dedication: \"I've got reservations 'bout so many things but not about you.\" There isn't a truer word to be had. On Summerteeth, Tweedy yowled about \"speakers speaking in code\" and I thought of that refrain from \"I Can't Stand It\" when I first heard the words \"yankeehotelfoxtrot\" uttered by the disembodied English woman on the sublimely creepy boxset of shortwave radio transmissions, The Conet Project, which is sampled sporadically throughout this record. And in a deeper, more deliberate world, perhaps we could trace that thread to unravel the secret wonder of Wilco's new album. But I don't think there's any secret; and I don't think there's any code. Beneath the great story of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, there are all the tropes and symbols and coincidences of a little mythology; but under that is a fantastic rock record. And why tell you? You all already knew this. "}