{"label":" Picturebox","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8540/homepage_large.8da34b95.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Wilco","title":"The Wilco Book","text":" In 2002, Wilco evolved. Yankee Hotel Foxtrot documented a complete metamorphosis from unassuming Midwestern rootsrock band to arty urban ensemble. The change has had both positive and negative effects on the group, leading them not only to create what is widely considered to be one of this century's first truly classic albums, but also to follow it with the selfconsciously jammy A Ghost Is Born, a calculatedly \"difficult\" record whose 10 and 15minute marathons divided the group's fanbase and drew mixed reactions from critics. In light of this transfiguration, it seems logical that we now have The Wilco Book. If you always loved liner notes, check this shit out these liners are so ridiculous that the music is purely an afterthought. Okay, that's not strictly true. Or it's at least not fair. The Wilco Book provides a visual representation of the band's state of mind circa 20022004, as it underwent its most difficult changes: the turnover of membership, and the complete overhaul of the band's sound. That said, don't come looking for gossip or dirt, because it ain't here. The most controversial item is the revelation that Mikael Jorgensen had to ban Jeff Tweedy from playing slap bass in the control room. Jay Bennett? He's alluded to briefly in an essay. Max Johnston and Ken Coomer? Consigned completely to the memory hole. Wilco did not set out to make their autobiography here, and they don't talk about their past much at all in these bloglike ruminations. Their writing is surprisingly humble, though Jeff Tweedy seems to abhor talking himself up, and Mikael Jorgensen, whose contributions are huge (especially for such a new member) lends massive insight into the band's recording and rehearsal process. Glenn Kotche's drawings of percussion instruments \"Inglenntions\" Tweedy calls them are amusing and poignant, as are Tweedy's calming exercises, including sheets on which he's written the numbers 1100. The band's sound engineers and techs chip in their own thoughts on live sound and equipment, and the inimitable Walter Sear of Sear Sound Studios fame tells his story candidly. But then there are the essays by Henry Miller and Rick Moody, which I fall asleep just thinking about. Miller's was written in 1962 and is a ponderous musing on watercolors and about a million other things, while Moody deconstructs the Wilco discography album by album. The analytical overreach in Moody's essay is so embarrassing that I'm surprised the band wound up including it. Put it this way: Would you publish photos of someone giving you a limp handjob? Truth told, you could say that this tome's text exists primarily to provide the illusion of substance beyond imagery. And that wouldn't necessarily be an insult, as The Wilco Book's agenda is clearly visual. Near the back, there's a brief (almost hidden) mention of Hipgnosis, the company whose artwork adorned many a progrock album cover in the 70s, which is revealing this book isn't meant as a comment on the music that comes with it so much as a visual accompaniment. And at that, it's succeeds beautifully. I didn't want to touch the middle pages with Fred Tomasselli's stunningly complex pattern art while eating my foccacia because I was afraid I might ruin it. And, oh right: How's the music? Well, naturally, for the hardest of the Wilco corps, the music is the thing, yes. And the disc, which compiles material from the recording sessions leading up to A Ghost Is Born, has its share of worthy material. It also has its share of unworthy material, so there's some tradeoff, certainly. Do you need \"Hamami\"? It's a few minutes of the band members dropping percussive objects in a room with great acoustics more or less at random, and that's exactly what it sounds like. But you might if you are one of said xtreme fans need the lovely alternate version of Ghost's \"Hummingbird\", which features a clubby kickdrum and actually fits the mood and tenor of that album better than the version that made the cut. Several of these tracks are edits of lengthy jam sessions, and a few stick well opener \"Pure Bug Beauty\" in particular. It reminds me a lot of Califone's Deceleration series, with lovely autoharp and piano, yet also feels similar in tone to the outro of \"Reservations\" or the intro to \"I Am Trying to Break Your Heart\". \"What Good Am I\" was recorded in a Perth, Australia hotel room by exmember Leroy Bach, Tweedy and Jorgensen, and it's perfect, right down to the lofi quality and offthecuff performance. My favorite of these songs is the instrumental \"Diamond Claw\", a contender for Ghost that was left off... why? It has beautiful, George Harrison/Segovia guitar runs, haunting percussion, pretty piano, and the kind of direct emotional appeal found in Wilco's more conventional earlier work. So what to make of this whole package, then? Well, choosing just one rating was a chore. It's a great book as far as showpieces go, and it does contain a lot of great information for fans, even if it did make me hate Rick Moody. Wilco being a rock band, though, it's the music that most people will come for, and that rates only fair, with seven or eight goodtogreat tracks balanced by a handful of ugly little ducklings that never got to be swans. If you're serious about this band and I mean, like, deathly serious go for it. But if you just dropped in to see what condition their condition was in, hold off and let them carve a place in your life first. Once they've done that, you can decide if it's worth adding this to it. "}