{"label":" Motel","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8553/homepage_large.971887f1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Gary Wilson","title":"Forgotten Lovers","text":" My first week at the Pitchfork office, it became not only painfully apparent that it's a total boys' club, but that I was one of the only single guys around. Usually that kinda info I could keep to myself, changing in the locker room when everyone else was out to lunch and whatnot. The more astute boys soon noticed, though, and while I was gently heckled about it, they did their best to help, setting me up on blind dates with their cousins, sisters, and exes. But to no avail. Then our glorious editor hisself greased my palms with this disc of lost singles and found reeltapes from Gary Wilson, saying, \"Beck namechecked him, dude, he's like the white Prince. Pure Game.\" He also slipped me some Horny Goat Weed and said, \"You can thank me later, Ozstyle.\" With my hair dippitydooed, my jeans pressed, and my shirt tucked in, I was ready for a night out, with Forgotten Lovers, a collection of various Wilson recordings dating from 19731982, just waiting on the hifi for my return. Bringing that groovy chick Cindy home, I cued up \"Dream(s)\", turning my little room into something right out of a Kojak love scene. The shag carpet was growing right out of my floorboards while Wilson got to sputtering such choice advice as \"girls are cool for kissin' when the hour strikes twelve.\" Oh yes. I took him at his word and made my smooth move as his backing band, The Blind Dates, jerked a fuzzy sort of funk rhythm that somehow turned everything slightly prog. She wasn't really digging on the Steely Dan scene, but I said, \"It's cool, baby,\" as that fat synth bass straddling the line between Curtis Mayfield's superfly porn and cheesy Atari blips came back around, and I knew that I was home free. But then, \"Chrome Lover\". The timbales had the vibe going, but the scene got interrupted by Wilson's snotty comeon: \"Hey, why don't you just drop dead, huh?\" The remark was followed by some strangulated \"make out\" commands, followed by piercing free jazz cries, completely offthehook phone operators, and the sound of a mainvein draining. This schizophrenic shit completely salted my game! I got slapped a good one as she left, too, leaving me alone to enjoy the odd hiccups of \"Sick Trip\", which came off like Michael Stipe doing a Charlie Feathers impression before segueing into a straight piano jazz ballad with a standup bass. \"I Wanna Take You on a Sea Cruise\" was like Sun Ra leering in cocktail lounge at a 17year old, and veering very close to Wilson's classic \"6.4 = Make Out\" in the process. I was filled with longing when the perverse tapeslurred whispers of, \"You are my girlfriend that entitles me to one kiss,\" crept up at the end of the album. Maybe I could call Cindy later and leave that part on her answering machine? Gary Wilson successfully jumped between new wave synth spasms, soundtrack jazz and skronk, James Brown pep, noise collage, prePrince strut, and the Jonathan Richman School of Painfully Geeky Lyricism way back in the mid70s, as evidenced here. Then again, so did You Think You Really Know Me, and a lot of the finest moments here are executed on that record in a slightly more deranged manner. I can't say if there's room enough for two Gary Wilson records in the bachelor pad, but as I sit here now with this steak on my eye, I wonder if the boys at the Pitchfork office weren't just trying to put me on a sick trip or something. "}