{"label":" Vermiform","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/865/homepage_large.4784977c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Born Against","title":"'Nine Patriotic Hymns for Children', 'Battle Hymns of the Race War' and 'The Rebel Sound of Shit and Failure'","text":" Functioning as a complete discography of Born Against, these Kill Rock Stars reissues (originally released on singer Sam McPheeters' own Vermiform imprint) couldn't be more timely: the band became major players during the first Gulf War, and when they look back on everything they've done since breaking up in 1993, it must be chilling to read quotes like:\"[When] Saddam Hussein finds out that the U.S. is taking military action, a lot of people theorize that the first thing he's gonna do is launch everything he can at Israel to bring all the Arab people who are supposedly U.S. allies on the side of Iraq, because then the war will be against Israel too.\" Guitarist Adam Nathanson in No Answers #10, 1991. This isn't to suggest these guys were acutely in tune with political and/or economic theory, or even reality. Like most hardcore bands, Born Against immersed themselves in the scene's soap operatic dramas, played out in the photocopied pages of a hundred zines. It's hard to appreciate now that everything's fare for TRL, but the hardcore scene was once ruled by a desperate insecurity and jealousy to rival Fleetwood Mac in the 70s. Sadly, the beefs and shittalking turned into brutal beatdowns rather than bad solo albums, but just as punk rock had its heyday, hardcore had a few bright, egalitarian years before it split into posicore and hardline, finally devolving into idiotic heavy metal with scripted \"1234!\" breakdowns summoning the kind of pits Slapshot always laughed at. Their music was in line with the hardcore punk of the late80s/early90s, but Born Against took resignation and personal politics to new extremes. Guitarist Adam Nathanson and singer Sam McPheeters alienated most of their potential audience and nearly every band they played with; the band's stifling, binary responses burned Born Against, their willfulness rejected as arrogant selfrighteousness once the nascent ABCNoRio/NYC Hardcore scene they helped found fell victim to its first generation of fans. You can't hear it in most of their poorly produced, tentative studio recordings, but amid a sea of meathead jocks using straightedge as a sword, Born Against rejected idolatry and made kids rethink their allegiances to scene police bands like Youth of Today and Judge (both eviscerated by a parody band called Grudge, on their ProjectEx EP).The Rebel Sound of Shit and Failure compiles the band's early compilation tracks and single sides from 1989/90 \"The Good Father\", \"Mary & Child\" and \"Eulogy\" with nearly posthumous 1993 material released on splits with Screeching Weasel, Universal Order of Armageddon and Man Is the Bastard. Their initial sets are ruled by the same chugging riffs ruling hardcore punk since the mid80s, hugely influenced by Articles of Faith; McPheeters graciously refers to AOF as \"the JFK to Born Against's chubby Bill Clinton.\" For their influences, Born Against were one of the first bands to employ halftime breakdowns as dark dirges rather than the pitfanning \"dance parts\" Boston bands like Maelstrom unleashed with mob fanfare; the tongueincheek partying of Gang Green and Murphy's Law are traded for frantic wailing, looking inward for resolve rather than at the audience for inspiration, thinking about how fucked up you're going to get after the show. Though most of The Rebel Sound of Shit and Failure sounds more like their wasted predecessors which works on \"Resist Control\", \"Nine Years Later\" and a famously fucked cover of \"Movin' On Up\" (the theme from The Jeffersons) the 1993 recordings steal this show, pointing toward the slick, overproduced screamo of Refused and their ilk, who for their perjury are an invaluable alternative to new millennium MTV hardcore. \"Wearing a Lampshade\", \"Five Dollars an Hour\" and the killer closer \"My Favorite Housing Project\" all from their split 8\" with Man Is the Bastard are their most creative and captivating recordings by a mile.Nine Patriotic Hymns for Children and Battle Hymns of the Race War were the only \"fulllength\" records Born Against released (there are indeed nine Patriotic Hymns, and the ten Battle Hymns fit nicely on a 10\" slab). It's critical to note that Born Against were always fascinated by the evil ignorance of racism, not by any \"daring\", careless misappropriation of its sickening legacy. These two releases postdated the NYHC heyday; the first reprises some of their best tunes in less fiery rerecordings, seriously diluting \"Nine Years Later\" and \"Mary & Child\", which has all the passion and purpose of a Meatmen tune. The saving grace for Nine Patriotic Hymns is the Jesus Lizard tribute \"Well Fed Fuck\", one of a handful of Born Against tracks that solidified their reputation as a challenging alternative to brocore. By 1992's Battle Hymns of the Race War, grunge was broadcasting easy rebellion to suburban teenagers, and worse, the new generation of hardcore kids were evolving into baggy, emo caricatures, writing on their oversized Salvation Army backpacks with Sharpies, obsessed with belonging but never taking risks or really supporting the scene they simply bought. Sadly, some of Born Against's midperiod songs made as much sense on their stereos as onstage; once members of a tiny, tense core of explosive live acts, Born Against were subverted by the commercial repopularization of rebellion. Expanding their sound for Battle Hymns, they cross into Dischord territory, approaching Lungfish (\"This Trash Should've Been Free\", \"Poland\") and of course, Fugazi (\"Murder the Sons of Bitches\", \"Sendero\"). It's problematic that Born Against are probably more sociologically than musically important. Their honest, frustrated, even confused DIY approach was an experiment in avoiding contamination by association, in calling their peer group on any and every inconsistency. They've become a touchstone for modern punk and hardcore bands struggling to straddle commercial success and revolutionary intent: the hugely successful Swedes in Refused, for instance, were basically a Born Against tribute band. If they weren't so upfront about it, many of their MTVgarnered fans would never have known, but like most Born Against fans, Refused only appropriated the band's uncompromising independence in attitude, not action. "}