{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/866/homepage_large.dea5d1ec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brad Haywood","artist":"Mark Borthwick / Trevor hollAnd","title":"Helene","text":" REVIEW LOG Subject: Borthwick/hollAnd, Helene Reviewer: Haywood, B.R. 7/11/02. First attempt at listening to Helene. Album consists of only one track, a composition featuring a woman reading poetry written by \"renowned New York artist\" (label's words, not mine) Mark Borthwick, atop a simple arpeggiated acoustic guitar pattern. The guitar occasionally cuts out, leaving dead silence. To quell the silence, famed electropop wizard Trevor hollAnd tosses dicedup pieces of the Borthwick poetry experience haphazardly back into the sonic landscape. That's all there is. Reviewer can't believe some of the shit that sees official release these days. Reviewer curses name of hollAnd. First attempt ends at 19:56. 7/14/02. Second attempt at listening to Helene. Album still only consists of one track. Reviewer incredulous, fast forwards through disc, looking for 'good parts.' Finding none after 26 minutes, second attempt ends prematurely at 26:15. 7/18/02. Third attempt at listening to Helene. Reviewer spends several hours on car ride to rural North Carolina, wondering if an album with only one track nay, only one musical idea can be considered an album. Reviewer supposes this is possible, but has his doubts. Reviewer plays Helene for 36 of last 45 minutes of road trip. Second attempt ends at 36 minutes when reviewer is pulled over by police. Reviewer curses name of Borthwick and Officer Hargrove. Still one track. 7/19/02. Fourth attempt at listening to Helene. Reviewer discovers that 10% of rural North Carolina towns are named Hargrove. Finds this less puzzling than the onetrack, oneidea album, but puzzling nonetheless. Reviewer still angry at Borthwick, and wishes ill upon his renowned New York career. Despite anger, reviewer completes 39minute listening experience, then punches self in head. 7/22/02. Fifth (residual) attempt at listening to Helene. Reviewer, in an attempt to rid self of lingering bias, listens to album once more. Reviewer reads another review to supplement own listening experience, learns that Helene was originally soundtrack to a gallery/performance piece (for Big Shot Borthwick, of all people). Helene beginning to make more sense. Still crap. Conclusion: Reviewer concludes, after three attempted and two completed listening experiences, that Helene is like a wedding video: if you were at the wedding, the video brings back fond memories; if you weren't, the video is perhaps only slightly more exciting than the wedding album. Similarly, Helene probably worked better when it accompanied Borthwick's artwork. Now it merely serves Borthwick, hollAnd, and their former patrons as a nice reminder of some fine month in Manhattan. All those not in attendance should steer clear. "}