{"label":" Hidden Agenda","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8578/homepage_large.288c0119.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David M. Pecoraro","artist":"Witch Hazel Sound","title":"This World, Then the Fireworks","text":" Originally, these guys were just plain \"Witch Hazel.\" Now they've changed their name to the Witch Hazel Sound. With a name like that, you can tell these guys want to be thought of as something different. Theirs is a unique sound, man one unlike anything you've heard before, one deserving of a name all its own. Ahh, if only this were the case. If only this album were unique, then I'd know what to say about it. At best, I could heap on gushing praise. At worst, I could tear it to shreds with my most vicious turns of phrase. But the Witch Hazel Sound is, quite unfortunately, not really worthy of its own subgenre. Theirs is a brand of poprock we've heard a thousand times before; yet another in a seemingly infinite line of wouldbe 60s poprockers born a few decades too late. Indeed, the Witch Hazel Sound is almost indistinguishable from say, the Elephant Six Sound. It's one made from layered instruments and harmonies, one full of horns and organs and backup singers. It's not even a bad sound, really just one that begs the question, \"Does this really need to be done again?\" Which leaves me in a tough spot. What's to say about an album like This World, Then the Fireworks that hasn't been said a thousand times before about a thousand similar albums? I suppose I could tell you about the arrangements, but the band's liberal use of trumpets, saxophones, and organs, which seem to exist only to supplement their otherwise traditional sound, are just not that spectacular. I could talk about how the vocals and musicianship are remarkably competent (though never anything more). And I guess I could talk about the neat little flourishes the groups adds here and there like the way \"Kiss Me Monster\" begins with one of the most familiar words in all of 60s poprock (\"Hello Darkness\"), and continues with traditional vocal harmonizing and a wistful aesthetic, yet somehow manages to do it in a way that doesn't seem derivative of Simon and Garfunkel. Or, hey, while we're on the subject, I could even tell you about the guitar part that plays backwards over the end of \"Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye,\" creating a sound that's at once familiar and alien. Maybe I could gush about \"Providence,\" a charming instrumental right out of a cartoon, comprised entirely of organ and vibraphone. Friends, I could mention all of these things. And in between I could use phrases like \"jangly guitars\" or \"harmonies like a summer breeze.\" But that would leave you without any knowledge of the lyrical content, which, predictably, consists of your standard, innocuous pop song fare. (This, incidentally, would be better left unmentioned.) And what of the song structures? Shouldn't you be told that with the exception of a few short instrumental numbers, and the simple yet charming \"Guild of Splinters\" they're about as predictable as they come? Yes, you should be told. And you should also be told that the Witch Hazel Sound, while often painfully unremarkable, aren't truly deserving of critical beatdown. Because along with being too ordinary to love, they're also far too pleasant to hate. This, after all, is a decent bunch of reasonably talented guys, and the music they create is certainly harmless enough. They never get as toothrottingly sweet as the Apples in Stereo in their most grating moments, nor do they ever succumb to the absurd pretensions that occasionally drag down Of Montreal. Yet, without such possibility of failure lurking over their shoulders, the songs on This World, Then the Fireworks ultimately all sound a bit too alike. In a market glutted with 1960s style pop music, these guys seem designed to fade into the background. And I realize that you're reading this because you want me to tell you these things. But fuck, I just don't know where to start. "}