{"label":" Hanson","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8585/homepage_large.082025e6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Wolf Eyes","title":"Slicer","text":" A lot of what I own by Wolf Eyes is broken: Dead Hills' packaging is held together with scotch tape; Dread has no cover at all; the Slicer CD's cracked, and a couple split singles have literally fallen apart. I'm not usually such a mess with my record collection, but I figure this disrepair rests well within the spirit of the Ann Arbor trio's continually expanding, forever growling discography. Wolf Eyes has fiftysome releases since 1997, and so much music is kind of intimidating if you haven't heard them yet. Like waking up and deciding to dive into one of the hundred or so linked stories and novels comprising Honore de Balzac's La Comedie Humaine. Slicer a reissue of a 2001 cassetteonly release of the same name is a good starting point for the uninitiated: the liner notes list their output up to Slicer, stylistically, it's a Wolf Eyes greatest hits, and more importantly, it's pretty damn solid. I only have a couple bones to pick, actually. At a basic aesthetic level, there are no song titles, which sucks because I always saw those tags as pictograms for or overall description and dissection of each exercise. In the past, \"Burn Your House Down\" from Dread became a call to arms for silly gas huffers and \"Dead Hills\" erupted as the earthtoned backdrop for an empty, millwhistling middle America, because I had these brief titles as points of departure. The other downer is the first track, a twominute vocalsplice thing redolent of The Cave, Steve Reich's overwrought Old Testament oratory. Imagining it as perversely manipulated answering machine messages made it creepier and therefore more interesting, but really, it's weak. Maybe it's a warm up for an upcoming remake of Kurt Schwitters' Ursonate? On the upswing and what a glorious upswing! track two is a variation on the fuzzedout cicada stomp I've grown to adore: six minutes of splayed horns, crackling tapes, springreverb, sputtering shards of salty glass door hinges and that standard highend knobtwisting that approximates a reconstituted airraid siren. Track three uses a bassheavy start/stop burp/blurt that begins too tightly, but shifts to a percussive twochannel palimpsest, which grows increasingly Throbbing Gristlesinister as the song progresses. Track four's a ten minute complication of a demonic Matmos, stalking the countryside looking for kids to rip apart while archiving the ensuing sounds with wellplaced contact microphones. (And the kids who escape could breakdance to the last section of this beauty while dousing themselves with battery acid!) It's as dark and driving as Joy Division or early Swans, and as patently mute as Nurse With Wound. The penultimate track, number six, is a threeminute pop song based on the sounds of the interior of ghosts and shadows. It shifts halfway through, of course, and momentarily sputters and skips into twisted highpitch noise land before leveling back out to an ominous whisper. The crazed horn at the end doesn't make sense compositionally, but it's a nice exclamation point. Track seven will hurt your dog's ear, I can almost guarantee that. Not much percussion for the coda, just lots and lots of singularly highend distortion: turn your amp as high as it can go, lean your guitar against the amp, return to the room in five minutes. There you go. Besides track one, these pieces are largely without discernible human voices, which is how I prefer my Wolf Eyes: things remain more mysterious that way. Slicer's varied palette of latenight creepiness doesn't lean too much towards any stylistic trope, which makes it both a solid introduction and a fine archive to remind you why you fell so hard for these guys in the first place. Coupled with the justreleased Covered in Bugs DVD an esoteric document offering an offkilter look into the band's process (as well as a strangely tentative arthouse moshpit comprised of giggling teenagers) you've got yourself a certifiable Wolf Eyes starter kit! "}