{"label":" Bad Glue","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8588/homepage_large.04c002dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nick Sylvester","artist":"Wolf Eyes","title":"Fuck Pete Larsen","text":" PreBurned Mind Wolf Eyes are bullshit, a soggy biscuit for woody contrarians and ratfaced bastards who lap up our disgust like prissy Meursaults. There's nothing to \"get\": Wolf Eyes aren't laborious (they're merely prolific), and their music's not difficult (it's merely obtuse). This week, an eBay auction of the band's ultrarare Black Rat Floods threeinch closed at well over $50. I haven't heard BRF, but my guess is standing inside the garage at the fucking Jiffy Lube would give me a pretty good idea. Fifty fucking dollars! Think about how many times you could have your oil changed for fifty dollars. Completist fanaticism aside, I do love Wolf Eyes. For practical reasons really. Often I find myself in a situation where I just want to drown out everything happening around me maybe I'm reading, or sleeping, or listening to a new record and Wolf Eyes always complete the task. The band's countless limited runs are utterly faceless, but it's a good utterly faceless a Johnny Cash utterly faceless. If anything, what makes one Wolf Eyes record better than another and again, Burned Mind is in its own league is the sheer number of copies floating around (fuck aura). Three cheers for Wabana then, who by rereleasing Fuck Pete Larsen have made this 600copy vinyl from 2002 the second, or fourth, or 20th best Wolf Eyes record to date. Pete Larson (not \"Larsen\") is the guitarist in husbandwife duo 25 Suaves and the head of Michigan noise label Bulb Records. He released Dread and the band's early sevens and a twelve, but without speculating, it's unclear why Wolf Eyes thought Larson was such an asshole. The album's two 20 minuteplus slabs of fierce analog drones don't demand a backstory though, and in fact, they're kind enough at times to show their hand: Often with Wolf Eyes it's impossible to get through the thick curtain of postprocessing to the band's supporting cast of instrumentation. Whether from cassettetovinyltoCD transfer woes or no mastering, the menacing highend squeals are pushed back far enough for repeated and lengthy listens. With this sort of distance Wolf Eyes' brand of noise becomes less dangerous and more just plain adorable less wild tiger escaping from the zoo, more giant tortoise caring for a stray baby hippo. Both are crazy, but only a picture of the second hangs on my wall. "}