{"label":" Tumult","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8596/homepage_large.99de11fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Worms","title":"Pelican Songs","text":" When I first visited New York City in high school, there were only two things I wanted to do: buy a CBGB's teeshirt (though I already knew I was too late) and shop at that big threestory Tower Records on Broadway. For outsiders, it is the Mecca of petroleum products and plastic, of glossy posters and Pulse! magazines stacked to the heavens. I can still remember my DID souvenirs from that visit, as I spent much of that winter vacation trying to get through those first thirty minutes of the Melvins' Lysol, unable to understand the glutinous tom and tarred guitar they mercilessly slathered on my young cerebellum. I'm more adept at swallowing the sludge now, which helps when Pelican Songs' \"The Most Futile Insurance/Pelican Song\" medley comes burrowing up from the tundra at full bore. Hibernating in the vaults somewhere since 1994, and adding another session from 1997, Pelican Songs is a collection of long unissued recordings by Finland's Worms, who previously released but a handful of singles in their country. The group promptly sets itself up inside Hawkwind's cavernous wind tunnel, with three guitars cranked for maximum pummel damage. For the first halfhour, it's all roaring vortices and attempted rock levitation that the Acid Mothers Temple would surely appreciate; these guys deliver the goods with a hypnotic, crunching slowness. Worms, who've been making this noise for nigh on twenty years, hinge on the guitar and murmured vocals of Veli Pesonen, and while he excels in the former role, his leads snaking in and out of feedback squalls at will through the oceanic onslaught of the band, his vocals are droopier than a mantrachanting Morrissey with peanut butter lodged in the roof of his mouth. Pesonen never strays far from the simple English that merely rests atop the rotund bottomend laid out by Timo Vuorio and Petri Leini. And early on, this isn't entirely irksome, but as he flatly repeats the line, \"I can't escape my mind\" in a gothic Michael Gira patois, no less the listener is also imprisoned, by the tedium that pulls the middle of Pelican Songs into a wallowing quagmire. As the disc wears on, these decelerated progressions, appropriate in the opener, begin to smother any attempt at escape, reveling in a moody sameness that's less an effort at heavy minimalism than the inability to get out of first gear. Worms firmly and finally entrench themselves in a more Melvins mire toward disc's end, hauling a heavy payload that grinds out their clutch. Distorted wails on the 17minute closer \"Border\" help the epic pound along with monolithic, overdriven purpose, and though it's supremely senseless and menacing as it barrels down the highway, it leaves me wishing the entire record were driven with the same lead foot. "}