{"label":" Sixgunlover","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/868/homepage_large.5c6fffe4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Kim Shannon","artist":"Bosco and Jorge","title":"Ally in the Sky","text":" Instrumental guitar specifically fingerpicking has enjoyed a popular resurgence since Jim O'Rourke's Bad Timing and the coinciding revisionist revival of John Fahey's consistently challenging work by hipsters. The repetitive motifs and lingering gestures of a large percentage of underground music (results vary from Town and Country to Howard Hello) easily lend themselves to a shimmering, warm guitar tone. On top of that, it's a pretty interesting contrast to the Albiniinspired, sharp and brittle guitar splatters that round out the rest of independent rock. It's easy to drop Fahey's name in there as a representative for the phenomenon, but Fahey gets cited for the simple mention of the word \"fingerpicking,\" rather than what his albums actually dealt with. America, certainly, and a distinct sense of pacing, yet what also shows up is some considerably intense personal conflict. 1967's Requia dealt with a loved one's mental breakdown; Fare Forward Voyagers (1974) showed Fahey looking into Buddhist religion, and 1997's City of Refuge offered a pretty bleak perspective on his once aweenamored and surreal view of the world. Another defining aspect of Fahey's work: An overwhelming sense selfmockery and musical parody, represented most notably in his alterego, Blind Joe Death, and the opening track from Days Have Gone By. It's important to note that fingerpicking is more than a technique; a genre was born through Fahey's experimentation, but by the time people like Leo Kottke and Robbie Basho were borrowing from the same American and World music roots, something had changed. A part of Fahey broke in his first couple of albums, a part he was reluctant to return to; his work got to be more and more adventurous, conforming less and less to the genre, while a whole culture of new age gurus began to devour the plaintive meditation his style engendered. Over the past decade and a half, more and more rock artists have borrowed from the golden age of instrumental guitar Fahey brough to bear. Independent music's martyrdom complex works its way into the somewhat sad, introspective music, while still containing those inherent themes of American cultural history embedded in the work. You know, for added depth. Thankfully, the new album by Bosco and Jorge doesn't conform to this tradition. Ally in the Sky certainly contains its share of American nostalgia, augmented with the familiar suspects (pedal steel, acoustic bass), yet isn't hellbent on milking sympathy. Yes, there's repetition and contemplation, but there's also an incredible amount of joy: The pieces burst rather than brood. Looking at the performances on Ally in the Sky by veterans like Rob Mazurek and Fred LonbergHolm, one sees revelry and eruptive sound. The tradition of each intricate guitar part is latticed with banjo arpeggios and cello harmonics; there are multiple phrases and ideas in each song, something of a departure from the current aesthetic.Ally in the Sky is on the verge of uncovering something forgotten under the weight of strictly \"post\" seriousness. It's not only the sadness of a lost America, it's a celebration of it. Jimmy Corrigan creator Chris Ware once described the strength of the George Herriman, creator of Krazy Kat: \"He didn't use many words, the characters literally seemed to be moving around on the page.\" Ally in the Sky is a somehow similar constant, where implied motion lays deep within the set orchestration. Krazy Kat had the same basic story line repeated over and over, relying on the personalities of its cast; likewise, the instruments on this record interact with each other as welldefined characters, whatever the setting, whatever the mood. It's not so much about humor as the absurdity of continuing: these characters have a clear destiny that they're oblivious to: Riding in the car, looking out our window at exit signs and farmland, at animals and crops, we hear this unrelenting, proud march.Ally in the Sky shows Bosco and Jorge developing into something more complicated than Kottke gestures; it gives a sense of a world outside of music. Somewhere, for a couple of bucks, you could buy dinner and some records, a newspaper. Sunsets, smokes, opinions; family, neighbors, lowwages. It's a little idyllic and romanticized, sure, but the extra steps into reality make Ally more tangible than the usual daydreams of days gone by. "}