{"label":" Babygrande","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8605/homepage_large.7d20469d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Dreddy Krueger Presents...Think Differently Music: Wu-Tang Meets the Indie Culture","text":" The oncedominant \"W\" is there, draped in Applejocking color waves. The choppy, soulsampling production is there. RZA and GZA are there. So it's a WuTang Clan record, right? Well, sorta. On Think Differently, longtime Wu affiliate Dreddy Krueger has taken a concept chock with novelty appeal your favorite indie rappers over Wu beats! and stretched it into a nearly hourlong exercise in necrophilia. If the formerly ubiquitous Clan aren't yet a hiphop casualty, they're on life support. It's been four years since Iron Flag and four years more since one of their albums made a cultural impact. Ghostface is arguably the only one of the collective who is still turning out essential albums. But WuTang has an everlasting allure. Krueger only managed to wrangle the services of three official Wu members here, one of whom is UGod, the only one I wouldn't want to meet on wax. Would it really have been so difficult to get 16 bars from, say, Masta Killa? Gripes and misleading circumstances aside, WuTang Meets the Indie Culture is surprisingly coherent and faithful to RZA's model, and it features a few unexpectedly gleaming examples of Wuaping. Backed by nostalgic production from Mathematics, designer of the famed W logo, and Wu tenderfoot Bronze Nazareth, each song has a stretchedout leftover appeal. Which makes sense because that's exactly what Krueger did he pilfered the unused Wu archives for hidden gems. The whole practice is hitandspliff. The tracks you think will quake, like RZA and MF Doom teaming up on \"Biochemical Equation\", or GZA and Ras Kass squaring off on the thrilling \"Lyrical Swords\" (Ras easily dominates the suddenly old Genius), are gold. Cannibal Ox's Vast Aire also makes a strong showing over the churning, sweaty harmonica boogie of \"Slow Blues\". \"I'm like Ali, better yet Joe Louis/ I'll put my hands through you/ I don't need bullets,\" he sneers. Less appealing ventures JLive meets R.A. the Rugged Man, anyone? either feel forced or illconceived. \"Aesop Rock is weird and so is Del tha Funky Homosapien. Get 'em in the booth!\" This only raises an important question: What exactly constitutes \"indie\" in hiphop right now? In indiehop's salad days, when ElP swung a mighty sword and the word \"Rawkus\" didn't make you groan, this sort of project might have meant something. Now we're subjected to the likes of Scaramanga Shallah. These miscellaneous MCs are only indie because they can't get on commercially, not because they embody some sort of concrete ethos. This makes the whole venture bunk, though not a complete waste of time. Two interludes from Jim Jarmusch, reportedly a friend of Krueger's and the reason RZA steals Coffee and Cigarettes from Bill Murray, are bizarrely pretentious (\"Harmony composes compatibility among the incongruous...\") and reason alone to give this a listen. While only a curio in the Wu archive, our friend Dreddy appears to have good intentions. It wouldn't have been a bad thing to hear some more accomplished MCs give these beats a shot; most recall a gloriously synthless world of East Coast hiphop production. Of course, that would have spared us the chance to hear Littles, La the Darkman & Byata give their Wu dream whip a spin. "}