{"label":" DBK Works","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8613/homepage_large.ba612834.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Steve Wynn","title":"What I Did After My Band Broke Up","text":" Although Steve Wynn's former band Dream Syndicate was one of the most influential and terminally underrated groups to emerge from the nascent American independent rock movement of the early 1980s, the title to this collection of Wynn solo material from the past 15 years seems like something of a wry joke. By this point, the length and productivity of Wynn's solo career completely dwarfs that of Dream Syndicate, and over the past few years he's logged more gigs with his current combo the Miracle 3 than he's managed with any other lineup. And, as this wellrendered, 17track compilation illustrates, the argument could be made that Wynn's more recent solo work bests his earlier group's output in both ambition and consistency. Throughout his career, Wynn has done little to disguise his ardor for the Bob Dylan/Lou Reed/Neil Young pantheon. A gifted tunesmith and raconteur, like his heroes Wynn has always made the most of his rather unremarkable vocal range, and his best songs are frequently detailpacked narratives which chart as close to prose as to poetry. By his own admission in this set's liner notes, Wynn was left somewhat adrift in the immediate aftermath of Dream Syndicate's breakup, and the middling nature of glossy albums like Kerosene Man and Dazzling Display reflected this uncertainty. But in 1996, his career took a revitalizing turn with the release of Melting in the Dark, a collaboration with Boston's Come, whose Thalia Zedek and Chris Brokaw provided Wynn a muchwelcomed injection of raw punk energy. This was a beginning of a fruitful alliance with Brokaw that extended through Wynn's landmark 2001 double album Here Come the Miracles. So it should come as no surprise that this collection is wisely weighted in favor of Wynn's more recent material, as it steers the listener immediately into the buzz saw of \"Amphetamine\", from 2003's Static Transmission. This opening track is a nearperfect collision of primal VU thump and serrated, Ragged Glory guitar, and should be ranked alongside the Modern Lovers' \"Roadrunner\" as an ideal soundtrack for a long distance driving. From there the album moves unceremoniously from strength to strength without regard for chronology (or continuity, for that matter). Other highlights include two raucous tracks with Come \"Shelley's Blues, Pt 2\" and \"Why\" the pounding, atmospheric \"Death Valley Rain\", and the somber, Lennonlike balladry of \"What Comes After\". As with most collections there are sins of omission and inclusion (personally I would've chosen the Byrdsian jangle of Dazzling Display 's \"Tuesday\" over \"Conspiracy of the Night\", which features a typically overbearing cameo by the infernal Johnette Napolitano) but What I Did After My Band Broke Up should not only serve as a valuable introduction for latecomers but also as evidence that Wynn's near future may very well prove as valuable as his recent past. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for Visitation Rights, a bonus disc included with What I Did... that consists of old Wynn songs reinterpreted for piano and vocal. Featuring keyboard assistance from Green on Red's Chris Cacavas, this set finds Wynn playing against type, stripping tunes like \"Crawling Misanthropic Blues\" and \"My Family\" down to spare, cocktail lounge arrangements. And though this method proves songs such as \"Drought\" and \"Mandy Breakdown\" to be virtually indestructible, this format does not (to say the least) display Wynn's reedy vocals in the most flattering light. Variations like the bouncy strut of \"For All I Care\" do nothing to improve upon the originals, and in fact could likely make you cherish the previous versions all the more. Though Wynn's career has been pockmarked with enjoyable detours and oneoffs (such as 1998's acoustic Take Your Flunky and Dangle) perhaps Visitation Rights is one culdesac best left unexplored. "}