{"label":" Hidden Agenda","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8621/homepage_large.c09ee10d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Wannadies","title":"Before & After","text":" You know, if a band's first language isn't English, I don't think it's unreasonable to give them the benefit of the doubt when a mangled phrase slips out, or when the sentiment is about a million years out of date in our own slang (see: The Notwist's \"One with the Freaks\"), but sometimes you just have to draw a line. Plainly, Sweden's The Wannadies have a high degree of fluency with English. They've been the country's premier Britpop export (aside from maybe Kent) for a full decade now, belting out the hits in a foreign tongue like it was no big thing. But, god, the chorus to this album's second single, \"Piss on You\", is a fucking atrocity. To wit: \"So I piss on you/ Piss on you/ I piss on you/ Oh yes, it's true/ I piss on you/ I know I do/ Piss on you.\" These words, delivered in singsongy, sincere male/female harmony, were so confounding to me upon first listen that I wasn't sure whether to laugh or cry. On top of that, the song's opening line goes, \"I like rock, but you give me the blues,\" which opens a whole sociomusicological can of worms. You see, the idea is that she gives him something he doesn't want, but rock is based on blues to begin with, so it isn't really that far off, and certainly it's no grounds for being pissed on. At any rate, it's one of the worst singles I've heard yet in this nascent century of ours. Thankfully, it's also the absolute nadir of the album at large, so everything else comes up roses by comparison. The album is deliberately divided into halves, with all of the uptempo stuff frontloaded, and the ballads pushed to the back the residual effect of the band's original concept for the album, which was to record two separate albums and release them together in the same package. One album (Before) was intended to be the \"party record,\" with quick, snappy tunes you might dance to, while the second (After) was to be the \"comedown,\" full of ballads and slower tracks. It's clear from the final version, however, that this concept could never have played out effectively, since the band simply doesn't vary their sound enough to really convey different moods the slow tracks feel just as upbeat as the fast ones, and the fast ones aren't terribly danceable in their own right. Besides, Pulp already executed this concept by accident with Different Class and This Is Hardcore, and frankly, I don't see anyone beating that pair anytime soon. Ultimately, The Wannadies are exactly good enough to pull off a 36minute pop record, so it's for the best that they left their lofty ambitions at the curbside and concentrated on writing pure sugar like \"All Over Me\" and \"Disko\", the latter of which leads off the After half of the album with a slippery lounge groove, some big guitar hooks and the best drum fills on the record. \"Come with Me\" is the cream of the ballad bumper crop, with a nice waltzing beat and sparse piano backing the bynow familiar tenor/soprano combination of Pär Wiksten and Christina Bergmark. It all adds up to a nice enough look back at the glory days of Britpop through Scandinavian eyes, though one that's hardly essential for nonfanatics. If nothing else, the sunny mood is an improvement on the forced anger that plagued 1999's Yeah, though for prime Wannadies, your best bet is to dive in to the band's 1997 selftitled American debut, which shows their craft in fuller flower. "}