{"label":" Music Fellowship","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8627/homepage_large.d2a07010.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Wind-Up Bird","title":"Whips","text":" The Breakup is arguably the dominant artistic subject of our selfobsessed times, replacing the endless portrayals of crucifixions and weeping Marys one finds in any museum. The rise to autocomplete ubiquity of the term \"emo\" underscores this point, not so much in regards to the term reflecting any sort of new stylistic genre (it doesn't), but through the word's usefulness as a shorthand for artists taking the easy route to publicly bleed out their pain. Given the traffic jam of acousticstrumming songweepers striving to make their exes feel guilty, it's amazing that there remain a few creative ways of expressing the universal pain of heartbreak without succumbing to easy clichés like \"the universal pain of heartbreak.\" Recent months have served up two dandies from that latter group, in Michel Gondry's film Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and The WindUp Bird's ornate, searing album Whips. Despite extensively different approaches one being Charlie Kaufman's latest gambit to sneak scifi past the hipsters, the other being a 40minute slab of instrumental postrock via laptop both trace strikingly similar paths through the sevenstep recovery wilderness of The Breakup. I'll try not to give anything of substance away herein, but suffice to say they're so thematically and structurally aligned, you could probably play Whips underneath the movie like The Dark Side of Oz. That a vocalless album can keep pace with a twohour soundie is quite the accomplishment, though the Murakamiinspired duo that makes up The WindUp Bird cheat a bit with the tracklist, constructing the eight song titles from the elevenword Dear John voicemail that sets the record's tone. It's a pretension play that should send emophobes into paroxysms, but such a tissuegrabber move reflects the duo's catharsisbyimmersion goals, right down to the gritty move of interweaving the actual phone message into the central track. The sound may be closest to ambient, but this record is far from easy listening. Musically, Joseph Grimm and Jeff Smith spend most of their time slowly approaching and drifting away from crescendo points, stirring up brews of mournful violin, somber trumpet, plucked guitar, and Powerbook shimmers. Peaceful, gauzy moments like the chiming loops of \"Become\" come laced with foreboding undercurrents, while discordant, disquieting hard drive noise (as on \"You\") yields to resigned and exhausted string and keyboard epilogues. You don't need an English Lit background to see through the symbolism; The WindUp Bird is translating the ebb and flow of romance into musical notes, and despite the idea's onpaper corniness (and perhaps because of its wordless nature), it succeeds against all odds. Track most likely to recreate that punchedinthegut feeling you had the week you spent curled up in an afghan on the floor of your bedroom? \"This\", wherein Grimm and Smith initially present the exgirlfriend's sobbing sendoff message straight, before slowly alchemizing it into jagged white noise. The track is one of the more effective transmutations of emotion into music I've heard, a musical representation of all the scariest parts of The Breakup's aftermath: the selfmutilation phase, the tearing up the old photos and letters phase, the restraining order phase. That \"Monster\", the peaceful resolution immediately following, sort of resembles \"Theme from Frodo and Sam Sharing a Tender Moment in the Wilderness\" does little to undercut the fierce reflux pain of this brutal climax. Both of Whips' uninterrupted LPsidelong \"movements\" follow this same path, with the first, fivetrack one more memorable due to the presence of \"This\". By excruciatingly painting both the light and dark tones of a relationship's spectrum, the album's message dovetails nicely with that of Eternal Sunshine, both concluding that the good times and bad times of love are mutually essential, the emotional equivalent of a pop song's loud/soft dynamics. That such a message seems Hallmarkobvious in words is beside the point; that each person has to go through their own pain and joyfilled journey to learn it is something that Grimm, Smith, Gondry, and Kaufmann understand, and translate masterfully to their respective media for all us current and former sad sacks. "}