{"label":" Staubgold","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8628/homepage_large.153ccd53.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"World Standard / Wechsel Garland","title":"The Isle","text":" Longdistance relationships virtually never work. The art of letterwriting gets lost in the mail, phone calls from three timezones over come at the most inconvenient times, sweet words distort in signal static or get dropped in the middle of \"I love...\", victims to a conspiracy of starcrossed satellites. Though the two producers here Japanese composer Sohichiro Suzuki (who has recorded under the name World Standard since 1985) and German producer Jorg Follert (responsible for an album recorded as Wunder on the Karaoke Kalk label, and one as Wechsel Garland for Morr Music) met just twice in Japan to play and record music together, and then filled in the spaces from their respective, distant locales, the result feels like they never left each other's company. Suzuki's picking of nylon strings on \"Dande Lion Wine\" could be mistaken for lonesomeness. He gently swathes it the instrument in lines of piano, chimes, harp, violins, and marimba, each additional timbre embracing and furthering the melody, while never quite shaking that pensive feeling. It's not until the second track, when that lone guitar figure starts to flicker by the hand of Follert, that the longdistance relationship manifests itself. Each producer, instead of simply recording and splitting each side of a record, passed their ideas back and forth between Japan and Germany, correlating their themes and expounding on them in their own miniatures (seven by each their only shared credit is the title track). What makes the relationship work is that each partner is comfortable creating his own selfcontained sounds while being aware of what came before and what will follow: Wechsel Garland's songs tend to be more upbeat, brightening the proceedings with patches of sunlight and electronics. He tends to go for percolating pulses and babbling streams of digital nuances, making the first half of the album more buoyant. When his initial guitar themes comes around again, he either chops them into a samba shape (\"Octant\") or else gives them a brisk Hawaiian air (\"A Found Chart\"), each time new and refreshed. Suzuki, meanwhile, is the more wistful half of the partnership, not so much melancholic as hopelessly romantic, and prone to spells of sweet exotica breezes. He pens dreamier airs like \"Atoll\", with a reserved piano touch that fleshes out every melodic contour. As the album winds its way down, his role comes to the fore, the gentleness setting the lullabies and chanteys in a peaceful sea for \"Canopy of Heaven\" and \"A Fire Under the Stars\". Whether acoustic or electronic, no sound addition ever stifles the primary lonelyisland feeling with unnecessary melodrama or overproduction. Perhaps that's why it opened up DJ Koze's eclectic mix on Kompakt, and that it could embrace both the Langley School's innocenceloss as well as the clickknowledge of Jan Jelinek. By the disc's sumptuous, twinkling end, Suzuki and Follert show the best way for such musical relationships to work out, by being sympathetic to their partner and remembering that succinct advice: Keep it sweet and simple. "}