{"label":" Rainbow Quartz","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8634/homepage_large.f92b0ccc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Waxwings","title":"Let's Make Our Descent","text":" The Waxwings probably sound like a breath of fresh air to Detroit dwellers who find bands like The White Stripes, The Von Bondies, and Whirlwind Heat too gritty and abrasive. Similar to past releases like Low to the Ground, the group's third album, Let's Make Our Descent, is certainly worlds removed from the rougher sounds emanating from Motor City it may be just as nostalgic, but then, it's also far more poppy and polished. Context, however, is everything: Outside the Greater Detroit area, The Waxwings are blandly indistinct, a singleA ball club in a majorleague playoff. There's a bythenumbers quality to Let's Make Our Descent, as if the band had a checklist they were trying to fill: Hooks and guitar riffs that are catchy, but not catchy enough that you'll be humming them the rest of the day? Check. Moderately clever lyrics that occasionally stumble (\"Your hesitation's like a telescope, girl/ And I can see that you are looking low too low\" promises a punchline it doesn't deliver), but never fall hard enough to derail the song entirely? Check. Guitars that sound agreeably rough and textured, but not quite loud enough to piss off the parents? Check. The problem isn't that The Waxwings play retro garagerock; it's that they play such obvious retro garagerock. For a genre that defines itself so completely by the past, their influences are unfailingly nebulous: They have a vague mission to play 60s rock qua 60s rock, as if all they need is a general idea of what it sounded like. What's more, whenever they get near a sonic touchstone, they usually make the most blatant choices (The Kinks, The Who, the Stones, et al.), effectively derailing the record on premise of playing it too safe and rarely (if ever) taking any musical, imaginative, or emotional risks.Let's Make Our Descent isn't atrocious or embarrassing, but neither is it exciting or memorable. For bands like The Waxwings, only the dubious pantheon of obscurity awaits. On the other hand, perhaps context is everything: Maybe today's alsorans will be tomorrow's Nuggets. "}