{"label":" Cerberus","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8637/homepage_large.61fd3953.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Brandon Wiard","title":"Painting a Burning Building","text":" It's been a few years since the Elephant Six Recording Co. label appeared on an album sleeve, having been officially retired by the members of the collective and their respective bands once they decided that the concept had run its course. Looking back, it's clear that the collective only really produced a handful of truly great works, albums that managed to balance their pop sense and ambitious experimentalism perfectly, but I still miss it for that very mixture. Even when those bands failed to get everything in equilibrium, they frequently produced something of interest, and restless creativity is a sorely lacking quality in a lot of bands. Still, I think that spirit colors a lot of what litters today's indie pop landscape, from crazy pop bands like The Unicorns and oddball history rockers like The Decemberists to lone mavericks like Brandon Wiard. That's pronounced \"Wired,\" as in \"totally Wiard,\" \"Wiard for sound,\" and any number of other awful puns that will no doubt dog him until the day he dies or hangs up his guitar and keyboards. He's already got two albums under his belt, albeit albums that very few people heard. 2001's To Someone I Know and 2003's demo compendium Super Secret Double Awesome Japanese Import BSide Collection established him as a guy who could turn a hook and craft a decent song, and Painting a Burning Building initially sounds like he's content to simply realize the potential heard on those records and make a solid indiepop record opener \"Already in Amazement\" spills over with rambunctious energy, building in catchiness as the chorus approaches on rubber rhythms, plinking piano and whirring MiniMoog. The chorus itself clubs you with prime powerpop as Wiard blurts and babbled geekily about how totally enthralled he is with his latest crush. At this point, you're basically poised to take in a fairly standard powerpop record, albeit a very good one, but when you've listened to as many of these discs as I have, you sometimes find yourself hoping for a bit more than just that. The two slower songs that follow, piled as they are with harmonies, fuzzy guitars and electronics store keyboards, don't really give much of an indication that we're going anywhere different, but as the album wears on, little things creep in. A violin here, a cello there, a surprisingly complex stacked harmony, tempo changes, and pretty soon you're wondering what exactly is going on here. The album's final third answers that question by completely wiping aside any kind of basic approach in favor of a trio of epic suites stuffed with seashanty interludes, sound collages, ornate orchestration and slick beats. And while on the surface there's a chasm of difference between the simple, straightahead pop of \"I'll Write These Songs\", with its refrain of, \"I'll write these songs for her/ Just to see the way she moves when I sing,\" and the huge collection of voices, trumpets and strings that give way to Wiard's solo a cappella musings on shipwrecks in \"Old Heartless Sun\", it's actually set up nicely by songs like \"Permanent Smile\", which morphs from bluedeyed soul to pretty, stringladen autumnal pop and back again. But, yeah, these suites are really something the liners divide them into sections with separate instrumental credits, and Wiard transfers songs from earlier in the album into a sort of church choir setting. \"KMS\", by far the hardest rocking and roughest song on the album, is transformed into a maritime hymn in the middle of \"Second Story\" and a track later \"Since You've Gone Away\" comes back as a ghostly, Smileish thing featuring members of The Original Brothers and Sisters of Love in the choir and copious digital audio manipulation. In fact, Smile is probably the most apt comparison for these songs, as they similarly string together disparate sections into a whole that's far, far more than the sum of its parts, and massively entertaining at that. The net result is an album that similarly defies mathematical logic, offering infectious, propulsive shouldbe singles like \"KMS\" and the Kara Dupuysung \"Moving On\", churning power ballads like \"Miss Michigan\" and more than 20 minutes of total mindfuckery to cap it all off. Needless to say, this is difficult to pull off, and even skilled practitioners like those in the Elephant Six stable only manage a success like this every so often, so give Wiard his due. He could have continued to grow slowly and safely, but instead he dove in head first, and came out with a fantastic album that ought to put him on the map. "}