{"label":" Secretly Canadian","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8639/homepage_large.da72d6a1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Windsor for the Derby","title":"Giving Up the Ghost","text":" Windsor for the Derby has seen its fair share of changes over the years. The group formed in Tampa, where the core duo of Dan Matz and Jason McNeely were joined by drummer Greg Anderson. Since that time, the band grew to a fourpiece, then shrank again to just Matz and McNeely, and those two have moved all over the country, with McNeely residing in Austin, Texas, and Matz calling various East Coast cities home. In summer 2004, however, the two both moved to Philadelphia. As a result, Giving up the Ghost is an anomaly in the band's catalogue. Instead of being forced to get together semiannually to share ideas and record, WFTD were able to record in their home studio, creating an album that is more fluid than past efforts, yet retains the band's characteristic disconnected feel. Windsor for the Derby's music has always been a bit of a mishmash. Long instrumentals borrowed from postrock sidle up next to folktinged pop songs; jarring, discordant guitar lines ramble over subdued electronics. And although Ghost doesn't really break from that mold, it finds the band moving further into the quiet, lowkey ambience they've been flirting with on the last couple of discs. Most of the songs feature solemn, at times almost whispered, vocals, with several songs employing haunting, catchy hooks. \"Empathy for People Unknown\" uses layered vocals and droning keyboards to create the hollow atmosphere that permeates the disc. Elsewhere, the band flirts with new wave on \"Praise\" and postpunk on \"Gathering\"; both fine examples of their knack for taking on a variety of styles while still sounding distinctive. In fact, that dichotomy, that ability to at once sound fresh and conventional, has always been on of WFTD's greatest assets. Perhaps it's a result of Matz and McNeely building their musical relationship from different parts of the country.  The strongest number here is \"Giving Up\", a dark, wistful ballad that begins with strained vocals and acoustic guitar that slowly lead into a somber, repetitive middle section, building to the refrain, \"It's probable/ Things fall apart.\" It's the sort of tune that could change Natalie Portman's life in Garden State II. There are only two instrumentals: Opener \"Dirge for a Pack of Lies\" and \"The Front\". The former features an odd, minimalist beat accented by what sounds like an accordion, while the latter is the closest thing here to postrock, with swirling echoes of keys, guitar harmonics, and other muffled ambient noise surrounding plaintive acoustic guitar strumming.  With the addition of Anna Neighbor and Charlie Hall to the lineup, Windsor for the Derby has once again branched into fullband status. The fact that this lineup has been frequently performing live only strengthens the cohesiveness of Giving up the Ghost, which may stand as the band's most focused disc to date. "}