{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8641/homepage_large.ebb3e9ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Wha-ha-ha","title":"Shinutokiwa Betsu","text":" During the early 1980s in Japan where information and culture from the West flowed steadily, but without much segregation things could seem pretty confusing to an outsider. Whahaha were a originally a trio formed by saxophonist Akira Sakata (who gets around, playing recently with Jim O'Rourke), and over time, featuring some of the best jazz players in Japan. They never released any studio records outside of Japan, but in 1984, Chris Cutler (Henry Cow, Art Bears) released a compilation of their music on his ReR imprint, and the band found a modest following among RIO and avantprog fans in the West. However, Cutler's \"rock in opposition\" tag doesn't really begin to describe what they sounded like: I hear bits of jazz and fusion, placed alongside goofy cartoon voices, dub production, primitive computer music, new wave, and what would work very well as the soundtrack to Star Blazers. It sounds as if the whole \"lineage\" of Western pop only ever happened as a jumbled, nonsensical arrangement of events, with no attention paid to their order or significance. Shinutokiwa Betsu was Whahaha's first record, and has been reissued by Columbia Japan (you can get it via Forced Exposure, along with their second album). Longtime fans of Japanese experimental music will recognize Sakata, though drummer Shuichi \"Ponta\" Murakami has played with most of the biggest names in Japanese jazz and keyboard player Chino Shuichi played with Otomo Yoshihide not to mention guest percussionist Kiyohiko Senba, leader of the excellent Haniwa AllStars. Whahaha's rhythmheavy (or more accurately, jittery pulseheavy) approach is best heard on tracks like \"On the Floor\", with the vocalist known only as Mishio providing a scatoperatic, wordless melody under a quick, skainflected beat and frenetic piano asides from Chino. And it really does sound like a typical Saturday morning in my house, circa 1984. \"Inanaki\" begins with a an ominous, anticipatory synth patter before launching into some seriously spacedout speedwave, like the \"Star Trek\" theme gone manic disco. And really, we all have our paths in life to follow, but I sincerely hope yours includes the \"Star Trek\" theme gone disco. \"My Happiness (Is Not Yours)\" trades \"Star Trek\" for a documentary on how hydrogen atoms bond at the Atomic Café, or some such concept so overthetop silly/nerdy that it demands my undivided attention. Everything happens so quickly, and with such precision, you'd be forgiven for missing the little details, like Sakata's distant, discordant sax solos in between verses, or the silent break in the middle, when the band stops down to catch its collective breath until Sakata screams a command at them, and they jump right back into the \"bopbaba!\" refrain. \"Kohmori\" is calmer, and sounds to me at times like mood music for a Japanese cocktail lounge, interspersed with more active forays into calypsojazzroyal fanfares and soprano a cappella \"ahahahhhh\". Whahaha released three albums in total, the third of which hasn't been reissued yet. Fans of more later Japanese bands like Harpy, After Dinner, or the jazzier parts of Japanophile John Zorn's Naked City should get a kick out of Shinutokiwa Betsu, though it's lighthearted in a way Naked City never was. Still, I imagine this record stands out today just as much as it did in 1981 ultimately, eccentric cartoon music is its own reward. "}