{"label":" Definitive Jux","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8643/homepage_large.dfdfb96a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rollie Pemberton","artist":"C-Rayz Walz","title":"Ravipops (The Substance)","text":" Though already known for his work with the Stronghold crew, as well as appearances on Aesop Rock's Labor Days and Cannibal Ox's The Cold Vein, Def Jux's CRayz Walz is, with his second release, only now entering the development stages of becoming an independent persona. Far from your average punchline pugilist, he connects his slurry, erratic delivery with a voice like Pharoahe Monch meeting RZA in a darkened alley, and bases his song structures on metaphors, idioms and elaboration on his lifestyle. All of this creates a sound that seems curiously out of place on Def Jux, but could easily be confused with the traditional New York influences CRayz grew up listening to. Despite Walz's technically proficiency, though, one issue you'll realize early on is the lack of variety inherent on this record. When CRayz isn't simply hitting the listener with a barrage of clever insults, he's either reminiscing about hiphop's golden age, talking about his family, or discussing his distaste for the current state of commercial hiphop. Granted, he tackles these concepts quite handedly, but his lack of concern with a diverse array of topics is less than intriguing for the potential listener. And regardless of his antiplatinum rhyme campaign, Ravipops still seems to come off like a wellwritten commercial hustler album without the production values. Which brings us to the other major problem with Ravipops: Walz's choice of instrumental backdrops. The production is so incredibly fractured across the album that, if these tracks weren't all one disc, you might never realize they were intended as pieces of a greater whole. There's a couple DJ Premier knockoffs, some guitar melodies, and some RZAesque cuts, all of which work pretty well with CRayz's style; unfortunately, \"Battle Me\" sounds like a walk through a synthetic renaissance fair and \"The Essence\" is a weak fauxjiggy organ waltz. Worst of all, though, is \"Guns and Butter\" which rides an absolutely fucking pointless bassline that shifts north and south randomly, seemingly fighting the drumkit in a manner that makes it sound completely unsuitable for rapping, let alone listening. Luckily, the album does have its highlights, most notably the aptly titled \"The Lineup\", which ropes in a mindblowing collection of underground artists. Incorporating Wordsworth, JTreds and Vast Aire, among others, the rappers ride a light piano roll, clean bass and repeated female vocal samples with tales of childhood adventures. The standouts are the distinctive Breezly Bruin, who states that \"all crazed, I'm all day, get all A's in Ho's Economics,\" and the untouchable MF Doom, who secures a job as a school custodian and makes it known that he's \"not your man or your home team mascot.\" Of course, for as many problems as I have with Ravipops, Walz shows incredible promise. If he can press himself to branch out topically and get some solid production to back him (Rjd2, where the fuck?), CRayz could easily spring to the fore of Def Jux's second wave. But as long as he's pushing these mediocre beats, weak hooks, and repeatedly rehashing the same shit lyrically, he remains just another young upandcomer on a label that, despite its unparalleled success, still boils over with unrealized potential. "}