{"label":" Troubleman Unlimited","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8646/homepage_large.fef53d0f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"White Rock","title":"Tarpit","text":" In yet another mutation of the always protean U.S. noise/drone/improv underground, White Rock features members of rising NYC experimental ensembles Double Leopards and Mouthus locked in liquid, slomo mind meld. Theirs is a natural if perhaps not exactly blessed union, and together these four musicians (Nate and Brian of Mouthus, Mike and Maya of Double Leopards) opt to abandon the typical rockbased topography of sequential peaks, valleys and foothills in exchange for denser, more inert terrain that breathes and swells like a pulsating carpet of pine needles. Containing two 20plus minute (or sidelong, vinyl fans might say) tracks, Tarpit rivals Thuja and other acts from the Jewelled Antler collective in its ability to transform its assortment of electronically sourced sounds into organic solids so amorphously plantlike that one could swear the structure of these pieces varies from one listen to the next. If forced to referee White Rock's constructions, I'd have to raise the glove of Double Leopards in a close decision, as the fragrant musk of Tarpit bears closer resemblance to the elliptical, droning suspensions of the Leopards' 2003 Halve Maen than to the crazed, unmoored electricity of previous Mouthus works like their 2004 Ecstatic Peace album Loam. But these untitled tracks clearly retain the apparent footprints of all participants, and the album's opening minutes do consist of a gauzy, rather Loamlike fabric of sculpted feedback. Before long, further indistinct elements of percussion and electronics emerge as gradually and imperceptibly as a wave of heat stroke, and by its halfway point this first track has settled into a tentative womblike pulse. Distant vocal mirages briefly materialize (or do they?) and then submit to the type of steady, humid rhythms one might expect to hear upon discovering a sinister factory conducting mysterious operations deep in the forest primeval. Unnamed track number two opens upon friendlier environs, its ambient swells of keyboards almost deciding upon a melody or two before dissipating into the itchy fog. Though this piece initially betrays no forward movement as such, periodic stretches of coordinated silence and opaque momentum shifts manage to help the music avoid utter stagnation. Likewise Tarpit also displays White Rock's tasteful, patient restraint as they forgo any cheap, perfunctory blasts of loose noise. So much so, in fact, that increasing the volume only manages to make the album sound somehow thicker rather than louder, a fact that makes Tarpit a particularly difficult listen when, say, your dishwasher is running. And as with many such nonchoreographed documents of formshifting improv, Tarpit can engender a peculiar anxiety in its listeners. Are these recordings truly representative of White Rock at peak form, or might the group have taken these pieces somewhere even farther on the next night, or the next? Would additional voices have enhanced or hindered this album's vaporous, mesmeric appeal? For the moment, however, we'll assume these questions can be answered in Tarpit's favor, and simply relish it for the nonchalantly captivating success that it appears now to be. "}