{"label":" ATP","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8649/homepage_large.f2241513.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Jim O'Rourke / White Out / William Winant","title":"China Is Near","text":" Since their late1990s inception, White Out as comprised by multiinstrumentalist Lin Culbertson and drummer Tom Surgal have been one of the most consistently absorbing and unpredictable experimental outfits on the grid. The duo's fertile sound is unusually malleable, due in part to a topnotch succession of collaborators ranging from the No Neck Blues Band's David Nuss to Nels Cline to Thurston Moore. For their third album, China Is Near, White Out have enlisted perhaps their most sympathetic ringers yet percussionist William Winant and avantchameleon Jim O'Rourke. And with the aid of these familiar, welltraveled guests each of whom has appeared on more records than most of us could consume in a decade White Out are here again able to boldly pilot their freeform clamor toward distant alien horizons.China Is Near marks White Out's second studio goaround with their frequent live partner O'Rourke, following their Ecstatic Peace alliance on 2000's Drunken Little Mass. Thanks in large measure to Culbertson's extensive use of burbling analog synths, that album showcased the collective at their most overtly jazzy, their cosmic agitations frequently recalling early70s era Herbie Hancock or Sun Ra at his Moogiest. And while China Is Near retains a few hazy echoes of that predecessor, here the group has further atomized their nebulous sound, continually spiraling the music's various fragments further and further outward from previously mapped territories and definable genres.With the presence of Winant, the album unsurprisingly finds White Out's work increasingly dominated by its astonishing variety of percussive textures. Neither Winant nor Surgal is the type of percussionist who settles easily for the mundane duties of timekeeping. Here instead the two augment their wide assortment of drums with an eclectic array of chains, scrap metal and gongs as they stretch their loose, intuitive playing to inhabit whatever open space Culbertson and O'Rourke can spare. This approach results in intensely evocative tracks like \"Empty Centre\", a gauzy drone that Winant and Surgal encompass with jingle bells and the rattle of knives to ward off all evil spirits and/or grizzly bears. Similarly, on \"Mutinous\" a mounting force of tympanis pound like the sinister footsteps of an encroaching invasion force as swarms of growling electronics slowly build to do feverish battle, the listener forcibly encouraged to quickly choose sides.Since they use such an unorthodox array of electronic and treated instrumentation such as the distorted, unearthly autoharp that rakes across the face of \"Stipledmoon\" it's often difficult to pinpoint exactly which musician is generating each specific noise. O'Rourke, as always, blends effortlessly into his surroundings, and though this masterful versatility makes him a valuable addition to virtually any ensemble, it can also render his individual voice rather invisible. (If he's contributed any guitar here, I must admit I don't immediately recognize it.) Consequently there's nothing on China Is Near besides its general air of restless, questing curiosity that stands out as distinctively \"O'Rourkian,\" but that certainly does little to detract from this album's molten, formshifting splendor. "}