{"label":" Quartermass","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8660/homepage_large.e7023173.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Wayne B","title":"Night of the Hunter","text":" Rather quietly, multiinstrumentalist Wayne B. Magruder has wended an interesting path through the blurred postrock undergrowth. Dividing his time between NYC and Austin, Magruder has played with such acts as Bowery Electric, Main, and Windsor for the Derby, and since 1997 has been drummer/programmer for the shapeshifting indie combo Calla. Throughout these projects, Magruder has cut something of an elusive figure, with his textured contributions often hidden anonymously in the brush. And though Night of the Hunter is ostensibly Wayne B's first fullfledged solo album, even here he seems reluctant to escape his natural tendency to recede off into the music's shadows. Constructed of gauzy samples, processed lofi percussion, and acoustic guitar, Night of the Hunter builds a solid case in favor of organic, Four Tetlike nuance, and grainy subbass atmospheres. Most of the tracks here feature the cool, virtually interchangeable vocals of Jana Plewa or Daphne Gannon, and on casual listen one might easily mistake either singer to be the album's true headliner. This is due largely to the lowkey, nonchalant ease with which Wayne B completes his numerous activities, as he seamlessly incorporates unfussy strands of campfire guitar or cryptic found sounds into his serene patterns without stirring a ripple. Given Magruder's background as a percussionist, it comes as a mild disappointment to hear the stiff, inconsequential beats that anchor tracks like the opening \"Souvenir\" or \"Oak (In the Small Hours)\", although both are somewhat salvaged by a surging lofi wash reminiscent of the lush spacerock of groups like Auburn Lull. More intriguing is \"Dogville\", whose central rhythm is also accompanied by stray percussive clatter that sounds as though it might've bled through the walls from a nearby carpenter's workshop. Midway through, the album takes a decided upward turn with the supple, dublike pulse of \"Ten to One\", on which Magruder at last begins to assert himself with some propulsive invention. This momentum carries on through the swinging door creak of \"Garden of the Weaver\", the dusty cinema of \"Langor Train\" and the slowmotion, bottomheavy throb of \"See Through\". During this multihued sequence of tracks, Magruder wisely forsakes his earlier static electronic rhythms, allowing live drums, bass, and an evershifting montage of veiled sound sources to produce an entrancing dry heat shimmer, like waves of sunlight reflecting off baked highway pavement. He continues on this thread for Night of the Hunter's closer, \"Back Porch Apology\", a lengthy instrumental piece that combines the album's most prominent acoustic guitar work with a suitably murky rhythmic stroke. Appropriately, this last evocative track provides the type of mesmeric, but ultimately ephemeral soundtrack that one might expect at movie's end, when the hero rides away before the audience ever gets a chance to truly know him.  "}