{"label":" Free Porcupine Society","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8677/homepage_large.7915cd02.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Xiu Xiu","title":"Fag Patrol","text":" As anybody who's ever watched a television show, seen a movie, or heard a song will tell you, intimacy is a bitch. It makes you accountable for all your bullshit, brings out your worst personality traits, and sometimes, makes you act like a crazy person. Musical intimacy, on the other hand, isn't quite so complicated. Most \"intimate\" music is strictly a oneway communication, and is rarely even remotely confrontational. Xiu Xiu mastermind Jamie Stewart, on the other hand, has a way of turning such conventions against themselves, and on Fag Patrol he turns all the signifiers of intimate music into complex, often unnerving emotional weapons.Fag Patrol is a ninesong minialbum featuring largely acoustic reworkings of six songs from Xiu Xiu's previous three releases, along with two new tracks and a cover. It isn't Xiu Xiu Unplugged, nor is it a Jamie Stewart solo record as with all Xiu Xiu releases up to this point, what it is can't be clearly defined. But in keeping with the band's conformance to unconformity, Fag Patrol finds emotional power in unexpected places, pushing the concept of musical intimacy to uncomfortable levels while laying bare the strong songwriting at the core of Xiu Xiu's unique and profound musical statements. But, strong though it may be, Fag Patrol is neither as unique nor as profound as either of Xiu Xiu's proper fulllengths, especially this year's monumental A Promise. That album's standout track, \"Apistat Commander\", perfectly embodies everything that makes Xiu Xiu so compelling. The moment when, pitted against a throbbing, impenetrable wall of industrial noise and organic hiss, Stewart's unstable tenor wails, \"Oh, this relief it's the oddest thing/ Oh my god oh my god oh my god,\" constitutes the most moving musical climax I've heard this year. While some are put off by the overthetop, undeniably confrontational nature of Xiu Xiu's music, it's the very willingness to overstep conventionally accepted boundaries of expression that renders their music so incredibly affecting. The relatively sparse, largely acoustic arrangements of Fag Patrol don't allow for the terrifying transcendence of \"Apistat Commander\", but they do allow Stewart to twist the idea of \"acoustic intimacy\" into something perverse, voyeuristic, unexpected, and often beautifully disturbing. \"Helsabot\", the first track on Fag Patrol, and one of two previously unreleased originals, sets the tone for the acoustic portions of the record, as Stewart sings with a potent mixture of regret, reflection, and conspicuously constrained passion. Stewart's voice is right at the front of the mix, dominating a subdued acoustic guitar, every uncomfortable breath and awkward, searching silence intact. When, after one such silence, Stewart returns with a whispered, \"Do your pants ever just fall off off off,\" the effect is absolutely chilling. The oftdiscussed \"I Broke Up\" receives a similar acoustic treatment, the song's notorious scream replaced by a venomous whisper that is ultimately much more powerful.Fag Patrol's other two unreleased tracks are standouts: \"Nieces Pieces\" sets Stewart's voice against a backdrop of decaying strings, as he sings of all the dark secrets his niece can look forward to discovering. Far from a touching tale about retaining the innocence of youth, Stewart touches on both the perpetuation of dysfunction within a family, and how, often, gaining awareness of that very dysfunction serves as its own comingofage ritual. Stewart's interpretation of The Smiths' \"Asleep\", also available here for the first time, conveys not only Stewart's deep understanding and appreciation of an incredible song, but his ability to convey the emotional heft of such a song without delving into melodrama for the sole purpose of cheap theatrics. Indeed, for all its hushed whispers, swallowed confessions, and short, gasping breaths, it's difficult to perceive Fag Patrol as even remotely insincere. If anything, the record demonstrates that, behind the layers of screeching and noise that many listeners find so alienating, Jamie Stewart is an extremely talented singer and songwriter, expertly crafting melody and using his voice in ways that most people would consider untenable, if not downright rude. It may be mostly acoustic, but Fag Patrol is by no means an easy listen just as it begins to draw you in, it stands poised to rip you apart or, worse, taint the whole experience with a single, understated, disturbing utterance. If that isn't intimate, then I don't know what is. "}