{"label":" Xeng","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8683/homepage_large.af6595f7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Xiu Xiu","title":"Life and Live","text":" At last summer's Pitchforkcurated Intonation Festival in Chicago's Union Park, Xiu Xiu stuck out like sore thumb amid more nodoy outdoorfestready groups like the Hold Steady and Out Hud. Xiu Xiu's music is not intended for open, sunny spaces; it's like a vampire in a tanning salon. Then again, Jamie Stewart isn't the sallowcheeked ghoul you might imagine him to be based on his relentlessly inbent, harrowingly sad songs he's cleancut, handsome, pretty buff. The disconnect between his robust frame and sickly music mirrors the tension in the songs themselves, between quivering ephemera and hulking clangor. What really came clear at Intonation, watching Stewart and Caralee McElroy inflict violence on the air, was that Xiu Xiu's music is a music of intrusions. As Stewart quietly gasped over sonorous mandolin lines, McElroy introduced discord in the form of crashing gamelans and brokenglass synths, chaotic interruptions that seemed to come from outside of the music, to assault it.Life and Live, a collection of 15 solo, often acoustic performances culled from a tour with Devendra Banhart, gives us a different Xiu Xiu, one that must rely entirely on Stewart's voice and guitar without McElroy around to drop heavy ordnance on the periphery. As such, the album shrinks to a whitehot pinpoint, radiating out with grim placidity from that raw place from which Stewart projects his demons. The songs, drawing most heavily from Xiu Xiu's preFabulous Muscles albums, are spare to the point of obliteration, unfolding in glittering dreamtime. They build themselves slowly, one piece at a time a splintered chord coalesces and diffuses like smoke; a richly emotive syllable or injured yelp hangs suspended in the thick silence in its wake draped loosely on rickety frames. The instances of dissonance emerge from within the songs, not from without, sealing off and pressurizing them. If Xiu Xiu's songs usually evince a struggle between penetrating quietude and untamed energy, on Life and Live Stewart proves that he's equally adept at each. The two versions of \"I Broke Up\" cleave it along that axis; the first is a prayerful acoustic ballad, the second a pluggedin tantrum that boils up over the rim in its stormy middle section. Less revealing are the two versions of \"20,000 Deaths for Eidelyn Gonzales, 20,000 Deaths for Jamie Peterson\", which are too similarly performed to really justify the inclusion of both. The ripped, hollow chords of \"Jennifer Lopez\" and the gibbering exclamations of \"Sad Pony Guerilla Girl\" strike jarring contrasts to the inexorable pull of Smiths cover \"Asleep\" and the creeping \"Helsabot\", but such outbursts are rare enough to preserve the record's hypnotic intimacy. Life and Live proves that while the superficial difficulty of Xiu Xiu's music might be tacked on, its essential intensity comes from Stewart himself. Here, he's at his most hermetic and obscure, a long intake of breath that pulls in and in but never exhales.  "}