{"label":" TVT","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8686/homepage_large.27764a56.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richard-San","artist":"XTC","title":"Homespun","text":" This is a recording of great songs and it deserves a good rating, but the concept of Homespun is a strange one. These are the demos of the entire Apple Venus Vol. 1 record, sequenced in the same order. This means that those who buy this record after knowing and loving Apple Venus will have to sit through essentially the same album again, while those who don't own Apple Venus would probably be better off with the real deal. So what's the thinking here, exactly? I can see the Beatles releasing those Anthology tapes after all those years, given their status, but why would XTC follow up a record with another record containing demos of the same tunes? The decision to release these tapes seems even stranger when you consider that most of these demos don't differ much from their studiorecorded counterparts. When you hear the word \"demo\" associated with Homespun, don't go in expecting it to sound like it was recorded in Robert Pollard's garage or anything. Frontman Andy Partridge and cohort Colin Moulding have what sound like extremely sophisticated setups in their home studios, and the fidelity on this record would put many professional recordings to shame. And they don't sound like they were shotgunning Budweisers between takes, either. So, the differences are in the details, as on the orchestral backing of tunes like \"River of Orchids\" and \"Easter Theater,\" where Partridge triggers the string parts (with identical arrangements to the final versions) with a sampler. It's a convincing replication of a chamber orchestra, especially for demo purposes, but it obviously doesn't sound as rich and full as the final Apple Venus take. More valuable are the skeletal versions of songs like \"I'd Like That\" and \"Harvest Festival\" (both of which contain a brief selection from an earlier, rougher, dirtier take) that sound almost like proper demos. These particular tracks chip away at the glossy veneer of the final album recordings, revealing a melodic sense solid to the core. For XTC fanatics, who this collection is surely geared toward, Homespun comes with detailed liner notes that give an entertaining overview of the genesis of every piece. But mostly, this record stands as a further testament to a great songwriter. Partridge has spoken in interviews of hoping to achieve the melodic prowess of heroes like Burt Bacharach and Brian Wilson. Judging from his life's work, I'd say he's made it. "}