{"label":" VHF","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13612/homepage_large.3383fd08.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Beta","artist":"Youngsbower","title":"Relayer","text":" Unless you can get yourself killed in time (be you Nick Drake or Hendrix), someone is going to try and collaborate with you. There are times when it's a symbiotic and sympathetic endeavor, empowering both parties (something on the Erstwhile label comes to mind, or maybe Max Roach and Clifford Brown). But more often the results are heinous, as each tethers themselves to the other's sinking ship (Dylan and the Dead, anyone?) and drown together. I was certain things were going to work out between Richard Youngs and Matthew Bower, though. The former had released a nearclassic in his solo Advent, and he followed it up pretty well with Festival a few years later, in addition to his wistful folk whisperings on Sapphie. He'd also done pretty well in combination with other likeminded outré individuals in the UK noisescrape underground, particularly with SimonWickham Smith (and his LP with Acid Mothers' Makoto Kawabata wasn't bad, either). Matthew Bower had been similarly successful with his group Skullflower, which stomped the world into submission with its amplified tractor pulls, before devoting his powers to Sunroof! and Total. And the two had even collaborated before, on Site/Realm, which was pure scorchedearth policy, as the two stuck to their guitars and made a nasty slab of string spatter and feedback Zen, at once messy and kept. But that was eight years back, and magic just don't happen so accidentally these days. Ditching the guitar screes of yore and the livetotape approach, \"Eagle Like a Fly\" shows that this is more of a studio effort, as the two pour on the sonic fluid like something out of Yamatsuka Eye's Rebore project, slowly coagulating acoustic strummed flurries, organ tones, electric blurps, and hand drums into a dizzying brew that positively shimmers. Just as it's beginning to take effect, though, it curiously snips its own cord. And from here on out, Relayer begins the unfortunate pattern of repetition for the remainder of the disc, with tracks ending pretty close to where they began, in threetosevenminute increments. \"Pink Sky Blossom\" fades up some preset drum machines, with the layers a bit more phased, dogpiling all the sounds again, but before long they sink under this sonic detritus, lethargic and scarcely able to stay afloat before a quick fadeout. Sometimes the succinctness works to their advantage. Sticking to John Carpenterlike simplicity, \"Moonlight Loe Pink\" is constructed from crystalline swirls graciously held aloft, while lasersensitized alarms keen on and off. \"New Martian Sun Tunnel\" tries for Harmonia by setting the drum machine's chacha to the max and bending some strings before the celestepowered comedown. These moments, however, are all too brief when having to plow through the redlight frequencies encountered in the middle of a bighuff of AC coolant on \"Helicopter Kachina\". And while these two gents were surely trying to transport themselves midstream the primal gurgle of Terry Riley, \"Opaline Retrieval\" unfortunately finds them wedged inside \"Tubular Bells\" instead. Content more to meander about and tape some keys down, and then fiddle with ringmodulators, FX boxes and settings, fading the tapes in and out as it becomes either somewhat of interest or else too tedious to bear any longer, Relayer drops into a saturated sameness that dilutes any possibility of psychedelic buildup or expansive sustenance, opting for emptyhanded snatches by way of editingroom brevity. "}