{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8693/homepage_large.07569344.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Richard Youngs","title":"May","text":" It's springtime what are you doing indoors? Oh, maybe you're at school or work. Well, it's quite nice outside I'm inside, too, but just through the window I can feel a light breeze, sunny sky and green everywhere. There's a bird or two whistling, and every so often I can see bits of dandelion seed drift by. God, it must feel really good out there. Good enough to take my guitar, go sit in the garden and strum out a few hymns to mother nature. Except, I don't have a guitar. Or a garden. And strumming out nature hymns sounds too much like something involving John Denver and nonprofit organizations to be any fun. What a waste of a day. Unless, that is, you're Richard Youngs. On May, he seems very content to while away the hours serenading the new bloomers and ancient, perennial warmth. Born in Scotland, Youngs' music can vary from experimental psych (last year he released a record with Acid Mothers Temple frontman Makoto Kawabata), to minimalist electronic, to traditional folk. Though he's as prone to use kazoo or detuned piano in his pieces as the acoustic guitar on this release, his releases generally hold the 'less is more' aesthetic in common. He's not lofi necessarily, but he has a knack for wringing emotion out of the slightest recording equipment or available instrumentation. The unadorned balladry on May is generally free of unnecessary movement or texture (in that respect, most similar to 1999's Sapphie). You might call this music minimalist folk, because its melodies drift through basic, repetitive guitar figures, like a passive counterpoint to a barely running stream. The accompaniment is at once colorless and metronomic not mechanical, but something instinctual and neverchanging. Youngs' vocals are reedy (some might say thin), closest in timbre to fellow eccentric Brit Robert Wyatt, and at times seem to lapse into overtones the way he elongates his phrasing, compressing his voice to hollow out its natural depth may be offputting for someone accustomed to more traditionally 'pretty' singing. The songs themselves may have been improvised, as often the lyrics serve little purpose other than to have Youngs be able to say something while he sings. The final tune, \"Wynd Time Wynd,\" uses its title as its complete lyrics, featuring but the smallest variation (\"You wynd it all the time\"). It's typical for this album, in that it has two parts: the first melody and the second melody. There is no chorus, per se, or maybe there are just two very long choruses. Again, it's the basic statement and subtle variation as restatement that calls to mind minimalism. If you aren't up for very small pleasures, May could quickly become tiresome. Opener \"Neon Winter\" is an extreme example of that technique. Youngs' highregister vocals struggle to carry the simple (almost medieval) melody, while his guitar plays along in unison. When his vocal drops out, the guitar repeats the melody. If you think of a kind of music that might have been played by Celtic druids a thousand years ago to celebrate the new moon, with primitive instruments and even more primitive ideas of what constitutes engaging song, this music makes a lot of sense. On the other hand, if you aren't willing to step into nature, slow down your life's pace and drift, it could seem like torture. \"Bloom of All\" is less Spartan, featuring a more modern folk guitar figure, and some nicely lilting vocals from Youngs. It's barely there, but at least has roots in something postRenaissance! I won't say this music is necessarily unengaging, because I can imagine a couple of instances where it might really hit the spot. Ideally, the scene I described at the outset, with a breeze and a garden to set the mood, would accommodate this stuff very well. If you don't have those kinds of things at your disposal, you might consider moving to the English countryside and stowing away in someone's old barn for the rest of the season. With May, your surroundings could make all the difference. "}