{"label":" Jagjaguwar","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8695/homepage_large.b0583017.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Richard Youngs","title":"Airs of the Ear","text":" Somewhere in the middle of pagan nature worship and an acid trip lies the music of Scottish experimental folk musician Richard Youngs. Be it an acoustic love paean, minimalist drone or feedbackridden electronic sound collage, Youngs' domain is of florescent mayflies, vast fields of green grass and an uncanny ability to spike his gentle, seemingly simple tunes with psychedelic grandeur. And despite his talents as a cultivator of spaced sounds and vintage flange, his songs never seem like mere excuses for blasting off into the cosmic abyss; in fact, I'd go so far as to say that when he's singing, his music is generally straight ahead British folk, along the lines of old Sandy Denny or possibly Comus' lighter moments. Furthermore unlike virtually everyone outside of Jeff Mangum he's able to keep his faroutness from overwhelming the tunes. In a world where Makoto Kawabata threatens to release a new record every month, that means a lot.Airs of the Ear is Youngs' fourth record on Jagjaguwar, and is often reminiscent of his 1998 high point, House Music, on which troubadour melodies and eccentric takes on psychedelia and musique concrete were exposed as better bedfellows than you might think. The songs are generally long, but rarely seem like workouts; when Youngs rides a phrase, he tends to opt for trancelike repetition instead of aimless noodling or extended forays into soundeffect hell (hey, it worked for Ash Ra). There are moments when retro scifi terror via whoknowswhat arrays of ringmodulated synth might lure you off track, but it's nothing a healthy flashback couldx92t render merely charming. As a whole, this is a pretty earthbound record for being so superficially spacey. \\x93Fire Horse Rising\\x94 gathers a head of steam in five relatively short minutes. Typically, it begins with a delicate, fingerpicked guitar line accompanied by various homemade effects (provided by, among other things, some kind of hypedup theremin). Youngs' minimal lyrics, similar to past efforts, serve not so much to narrate a story as to help along the reedy melody (though \\x93I dox92t understand, I dox92t want to know\\x94 is right in line with his relation to current trends in music). Soon enough, the fuzz bass comes in, guitars are dubbed and overdubbed, and various screaming electrotones wail in the distance. The effect is similar to Angels of Light's symphonic folk steamroller, though where that band might barrel down on the song, Youngs is content to drift, though with considerable momentum. That he's able to muster this kind of power as a oneman show is all the more impressive. \\x93Halifax Amore\\x94 reminds me of last year's May, though the discordant squarewave interjections do their best to punt this as far away from that record's entirely acoustic atmosphere as possible. However, like May's music, \\x93Halifax Amore\\x94 takes two lines of verse and understated guitar to deliver a barelythere hybrid of folk and minimalism. Youngs' vocal harmonies add a mournful tinge to the song, but where trance ceases to emphasize pulse, there's always a chance you might miss a few bars if you're not totally zoned in on what's happening. \\x93Machaut's Dream\\x94 uses similar tactics, though the good old theremin supplies some much needed soft counterpoint to the thin melody. Youngs' guitar playing, as always, provides a skeletal framework for the rest of his tiny motifs to work in and around, but again, if you arex92t up to the task/joy of an epic stroll down minstrel lane, the details might get lost in the shuffle. The maddening thing about Airs of the Ear is that no matter how many times I think I've lost track of the previous 20 minutes or so, all the melodies stay with me. Singing along to this stuff is almost second nature, which I guess means Youngs' songs really are able to survive the half dozen effects applied to each verse. Far be it from me to condemn anyone for running with a groove, especially when wayoutthere sounds are involved if you're on the same wavelength, there's plenty to hear inside the mix, and hum along while you do. "}