{"label":" Dim Mak","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8700/homepage_large.7c57d786.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Young People","title":"War Prayers","text":" Drippy, rhapsodic and flaky, the second outing from former 5 Rue Christine artrockers Young People sways seismically through spacious artpop, patiently allowing bursts of pinetar noise to emerge unannounced. Perhaps as the cookiecutter hodgepodge of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs rightfully falls off the radar, more weary travelers will start tripping and shouting to the beautiful postfolk urban sprawl of War Prayers. Potentially excellent tour buddies for the equally ramshackle Baptist Generals, this coed trio (including exPink & Brown skinscrasher Jeff Rosenberg) has an admirable unwillingness to tidy their songscapes. The ad hoc pace allows their chilled, altcountry Bow Wow Wow to timelapse bloom into a John Cale inhouse experiment redirected by anonymous cowboy junkies obsessing over The Raincoats. Loosehewn fragments like pitted stars, \"Rhumba\" and \"The Valley\" masticate into homegrown improvisations during dopedup power outages; the stuttering movement between the roundtable Susanne Vega folkie singalong \"Tammy Faye\" and the reverb in spring of \"Ne're Do Well\" are a cloudburst of blackmagic pick scratching, Sabbath guitar accents, and vocalist Katie Eastburn's powerful lullaby of a sing/shout, shout/sing. Stylistically, Eastburn actsout as a lessfancy Björk on the wonderful \"Stagecoach\" where she manages to tread the line between on and off key while the factoryworker sounds her bandmates concoct rumble and hiss along the production line. She's also Chan Marshall's Wiccan sister moping through a slipshod buzz on \"El Paso\". Elsewhere, imagine an anonymous smalltown jazz favorite awkwardly humming a meandering spiritual in a dive bar with exmembers of Pere Ubu and a drunken, bemused Richard Hell providing a strategic, sickkid choir of burnouts and illsent bastards. \"The Lord\" is a military/religious benchmark, exactly 60 seconds of bombastic celebratory pop riddled within horns, humming bees, and enough joyous cymbal splashes to loosen up even the most jaded of hipsters. It's one of many parade stoppers, a climactic grand finale in Cat Power: The Musical performed by nascent SpinArt stars Suddenly Tammy! when the young Amish woman playing a Dickensionian Chan Marshall unearths ultimate happiness in the selfmythologizing of her sadness during a crazed rollercoaster ride at nearby Hershey Park. She decides, in sotto vocco, at that very moment, to first buy some cotton candy and then take part in a vaguely understood, largely abstract music project she saw mentioned twenty years ago in a romantic pamphlet written by David Wojnarowicz. As a whole, the eleven sprawling ragas on the War Prayers evoke highschool poetry, coolass soothsaying, dirty squats, Velvet Underground shadow puppets, and the hunger of John Fante. What's more important is that these really are prayers. The band's grubby tribal spirit may or may not supplant the sparkly succubus eyeliner dross regurgitated as pornstarpabulum by the menagerie of Luxx regulars spoiling my local nightlife, but regardless the final results, Young People's contagious slowcore vibrancy and unwillingness to settle for an obvious postpunk narrative explodes their humble DIY into a wonderfully zealous act. "}