{"label":" PIAS","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8701/homepage_large.fe83b809.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Ott","artist":"Young Marble Giants","title":"Colossal Youth","text":" Crystallization is more and more a problem as time goes on, especially where pop culture is concerned. It all traces back to the posthumous celebrations of van Gogh and Beethoven, to bourgeois guilt and embarrassed castigation for having ignored the work of a genius. Flagellant, necrophiliac backpatting has been a curse of the \"cultured\" ever since; as Rene Ricard succinctly put it in a 1981 Artforum essay called The Radiant Child, \"No one wants to be part of a generation that ignores another van Gogh.\" Record collectors and critics have been reeling off unheralded van Goghs for decades, their fingers coiled around a trigger labeled Shame. Greil Marcus, for example, is a staunch supporter of saxophonist, singer and later Hare Krishna Laura Logic (XRay Spex, Essential Logic), and finds ways to insert her name into almost every relevant discussion; leaving home, changing her name and speaking her mind, Laura is for Marcus the definition of the UK punk movement. More famously, take Kurt Cobain, who cowed both of his parent labels into reissuing his favorite bands: Sub Pop compiled the Vaselines' discography (thank you Kurt), and in a bizarre, revealing move, his clueless major DGC bought and reissued the entire Raincoats catalog, which you'll now find in $5 cutout bins for good reason: they simply weren't that good. Excepting a few outstanding cuts their clamorous debut \"Fairytale in the Supermarket\", the funkier postdisco winking of \"Animal Rhapsody\" and the pining \"No One's Little Girl\" the Raincoats (and Slits) were beloved, trumpeted participants, not serious players. Such is the fate of selfsupported, selfcontained movements: everyone is someone else's favorite band, and inevitably, the overeager next generation of learners are spoon fed to borrow a phrase from Lou Reed what's good. Wales' Young Marble Giants had only been together a few months when the extremely hip, brand new London imprint Rough Trade came calling, having heard them on a 1979 compilation of Cardiff bands called Is the War Over? YMG recorded Colossal Youth over the course of four days soon after, and by 1980 were being backed by more obsessive British music magazines as a detached, cool, quiet, alternative in the wake of passé punk rock and an ascendant, overproduced New Wave. Over the last decade or so, their debut album has been reissued twice, and most recently, leader Stuart Moxham assembled an anthology of demos and outtakes for Salad Days in 2000. Stuart wrote most of the music, along with his brother Phil and their isolate, pretwee siren Allison Statton; \"When we first started playing we felt almost apologetic because we weren't loud and danceable; we were quiet and slow and melodic and all those things you shouldn't be, especially after punk,\" he told Sounds in 1980. As it happens, their first two recordings are about their best: \"Searching For Mr. Right\" is their signature cut, an impossibly hollow, marooned malaise that brings all the intellectual headiness of Prague, Paris and your local café to bear. The ground rules for cutely moping, brainy bedroom pop were written here, and after some minor editorial input from the Marine Girls in the mid80s whose Lazy Ways Stuart Moxham produced a multitude of princesses would pine in similar fashion. Most notably Lois Maffeo, whose \"Evening in Paris\" is the finest YMG tribute to date: it was recorded after K Records brought Moxham to America to lend his vintage ears to hers and Beat Happening's early90s material, a trip prompted by Rough Trade's 1990 reissue of Colossal Youth. Who knows what Pias America will do for Moxham's career this time around? What they won't do is include \"Cakewalking\", for whatever reason. Just four years after the Rough Trade reissue, Les Disques du Crepuscule made the sensible decision to release the band's entire \"official\" catalog on one disc since it fit and that 1994 disc is, minus \"Cakewalking\", what Pias America is putting in wide U.S. circulation. The only question for our frantic collector culture is: is it important is Colossal Youth a longlost artifact of untouched backwoods genius, of poetry, pain and pleasure? In one way and it's possibly the most significant way Colossal Youth is a massive statement. It is the sound of Turning Down, and at no time in the history of pop music could turning down have been more deafening. Theoretically and situationally speaking, Young Marble Giants were a remarkable, refreshing contrast and yes, something of a revelation. But 24 tracks of detached, evenkeeled moaning is a hefty load to bear, and at times their watercolors bleed to blasé. \"Eating Noddemix\" is the bone of contention on that score, a dreadfilled juxtaposition of middleclass apathy and societal decay that Thom Yorke no doubt spent hours poring over. It's a heavyhanded indictment, and as part of the fatalist postpunk landscape, it's timely in its melodrama. \"Credit in the Straight World\", on the other hand, plunges off that cliff\"Instant credit in the straight world/ Leaving money when you die/ Lots of credit in the real world/ Gets you high\" and spoke volumes to Kurt Cobain, who planned to record a version with Nirvana, and may or may not have demoed it before his widow ended up murdering it on Live Through This. While their sound predicted nearly every monotone female vocalist that followed (and most of the acts on K Records), Young Marble Giants weren't a cutesy, naïf gaggle of gigglers: they were pissed off, isolated, and dubious. They were stuck in the middle of nowhere, and craved recognition, but were overwhelmed by the unexpected attention paid their debut, and often contradicted themselves: \"Young Marble Giants is a reaction to everything successful today,\" Moxham said in Sounds, but minutes later he scuffles his feet: \"We never aimed to do this what we're doing just happens to be acceptable at the moment.\" Time and distance have stripped such protestations of their proud, earnest anxiety, and, more to the point, any reason to forgive them. Like any young band, Young Marble Giants bought into their modest renown. For example, when Sounds next visited, Allison Statton asked the interviewer rifling through her record collection to mention \"Hymns, Disco, The Residents and nursery rhymes that's near enough our ideal music. Extracts from the best of everything we really like.\" It's not cynical posturing, but it's an awareness that betrays their affected \"aw shucks\" provincialism, a naivety Rough Trade were eager to promote. YMG's truly naïve, delicate first tracks the lonely nothings you could never badmouth were resurrected in 2000 by Vinyl Japan, who released most of their 1979 demo tape (which was limited to 30 numbered copies) and a few straggling leftovers as Salad Days, a collection featuring extensive, sharp liner notes from Stuart Moxham (who also personally mixed the album). To put it simply (and bluntly), Salad Days is naked truth, and Colossal Youth is relatively speaking naked ambition. Colossal Youth is run through simply, but there's a gravity and presence of mind an effort rather than effortlessness that, while stately and impressive in places, hilarious and nervous in others, isn't entirely comfortable. Some prefer that colder distance, but having unearthed their true Salad Days, Moxham has shown us an even wittier, more assured and lovable side. There's just no turning back. Toward the end of this collection, their monastic organ and bass sonnets are invaded by the irritatingly overt electronics that drove Allison Statton from the group. As their sultry café calm was replaced by a fascination with digitized sounds so fatuous they simply have to have been ironic, the band dissolved. 1981's six song Testcard EP was considered \"praise for midmorning television\" by Moxham (Statton didn't appear on it), and although it fared well with the already hooked press, few vaunted recordings have aged as poorly. Reactionary to a fault, Young Marble Giants' initial brilliance was quickly consumed, a process of burning out that's painful to behold during the 9 bonus tracks appended to their more striking and compact debut album. Recorded in four days, Colossal Youth's original 15 tracks are a gorgeous spring rain, and the superfluous bonus and Testcard cuts seriously dull their resonance. Still, that tidy and patient travel companion is here, a unique and alluring diary from the middle of nowhere that's affected nearly everyone who's read it. "}