{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8714/homepage_large.92c95c50.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Otomo Yoshihide","title":"Anode","text":" It sounds like an avalanche. Things are falling everywhere, as if the room I'm sitting in will break apart at any moment. How can these people play like this, without concern for their instruments or ears, and with so much drive? They are staining the walls of the studio with violent noise. It's offputting to say the least. I can hear bells and lots of drums, and deep down, there's something electronic perhaps guitar feedback. And I can hear sine waves Yoshihide and Sachiko M are forever playing sine waves now. The waves' howling is terribly overwhelmed by the rest of this cacophony. It's a fucking hurricane! How can Yoshihide have planned for this to happen? Why would anyone want this much chaos and lack of restraint? Maybe they don't care anymore, or maybe it's the kind of thing that sounds better on paper than it does in reality. This sounds like hell, or at least what the journey to hell might sound like. And yet, this is oddly hypnotic at the same time. I can't imagine anyone sitting down in front of their stereo listening to this like they might listen to a normal song, but I don't want to remove my headphones, either. It's a huge rock tumbling down a mountain, and I want to see how it destroys anything in its path, and whether or not it will yet destroy itself. And that is truly what this is: destructive and excessive. I've heard how the musicians were instructed to bang and stomp, making new sounds before the old ones ever had a chance to disintegrate. Each sound is trampled over by its successor, just like twigs under a boulder. And the worst part is that when it finally hits bottom, nothing happens. The thing simply stops, unnaturally, without slowing down or being broken into smaller rocks. The rolling giant seems to have parked next to a swamp at the base of the mountain, as there are lots of watery sound effects (probably from Sachiko's and Tetuzi Akiyama's microphones), and a scummy residue from what sounds like large Asian cymbals. The atmosphere has quickly become static, and despite a loud gong crash, I still feel the humidity and stillness. For this part of the piece, I read how the players were instructed not to listen to each other. If this is true, then why do they remain so consistently in \"harmony\"? There aren't any tonalities to speak of, but the nine members of the orchestra do sound as if they're working towards a common goal. And this is distinctly symphonic music: each part is essential, as Yoshihide has chosen the perfect arrangement to fulfill his murky impressions. But this is improvised music, so how could there be impressions at work, from the composer's point of view? And ultimately, how much credit should be given to Yoshihide at all? The second movement of his \"symphony\" is intimidating in its efficiency of movement and sound, but then again, it could all very well be one big accident. The above are my impressions of the first half of Otomo Yoshihide's improvised suite, Anode. As referenced, each movement contains specific instructions for the musicians as to what they are allowed to play, and even to whom they're allowed to listen. Conceptually, it's similar to John Zorn's game pieces, wherein the \"rules\" determine the outcome of the music as much as the actual sounds produced (at least in theory). The general strategy for the music is simple, though describing what actually happens from a listener's point of view can lead to any number of strange mental images and associations. Impressionism? Maybe, though probably only as impressions are immediate and sacrificed for the next. Yoshihide plays guitar, and presumably conducts. His background as a renegade turntablist, guitarist and allpurpose catalyst for freeimprovised music in Japan is precedent enough for a record like Anode, though the sound should still surprise most people. His most recent solo albums opt for nearambient, ultraminimal sine wave pulses and glitches. And his smallgroup records with Filament (featuring Sachiko M) and I.S.O. venture even further into the sounds musicians can squeeze from computers and turntables without any actual source material to play. Before all this, he led the seminal outfit Ground Zero, a band that blasted through so many barriers you might have had a hard time convincing yourself rock music wasn't invented for the sole purpose of the avantgarde. But other than the companion piece, 1999's Cathode, very little of his work really sounds like the transparent impressionism of Anode. The second half of the suite is almost a mirror image of the first, as the third movement continues the static ambience of the second, and the final movement witnesses the reemergence of the full ensemble: percussion crashing, microphones squealing, sine waves howling, and a general tumbling sensation prevailing. My rating for this record is probably instable insofar as translating the \"depth\" of the piece (or remarkable lack thereof), and is based more on the obvious conceptual ambition at work. I wouldn't be surprised if a lot of people hearing Anode wanted off within seconds but they'd be missing a very intense experience. "}