{"label":" Improvised Music from Japan","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8715/homepage_large.a56b5514.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Ami Yoshida","title":"Tiger Thrush","text":" \"The human voice is the original instrument.\" If that seems like a cliché, it's probably due to an overabundance of PC sloganeering that while perhaps wellintentioned in its goal of inclusiveness has turned a shred of wisdom into an excuse to ignore. Which is to say, if our voices are instruments, it might stand to reason we're all musicians and that any one person's definition of music is as valid as the next. Of course, this is where subjectivism, inclusiveness and improvisation get tangled up into an intimidating knot that no one person is able to unravel or pass on to their friend for a second opinion. Every sound is art, or maybe nothing is art and we're all tooting our own horns. And for Cage's sake, please don't bring up the postmodern. So let's just say for the moment that every sound we make is \"music.\" Other than deemphasizing the preciousness of artistic expression (by way of supply and demand), it should also make each of us an expert on composition and improvisation, even if we can only comment on our own. The intimate relationship artists have with their material and its connection to the social, political and natural world would in turn become a mundane experience, worthy of not much more consideration than our choice of socks in the morning, or the last word in this sentence. Ultimately, \"anyone can do it,\" and despite my suspicion that this has never actually been true, it's still a comforting thought. Japan's Ami Yoshida exposes these conditions on her solo CD Tiger Thrush, and in the process perhaps raises more questions than anyone without a grant and six months sabbatical could hope to tackle. Yet, in a basic sense, she amazes: if we are all allowed in the same artistic space, how is it that her music seems so unprecedented and consistently surprising? Yoshida was born in 1976 and performs improvised music with only her voice. She specializes in a selfdescribed \"howling voice\" wherein her vocalizations often take the form of barely audible shrieks sometimes similar to frequent collaborator Sachiko M's supersonic sinewave tones. Other times, Yoshida produces sounds that don't seem to have been originated from a person at all: distorted \"electronic\" feedback, erratic clicks, metallic scrapes and grating scratches. On Tiger Thrush she often uses loops to further obscure her \"instrument\" to the point that the end result has something in common with the experimental ambience of Farben or Sutekh. I'm hardpressed to call her music \"vocal\" or \"improvised,\" as the generally very short sound fragments could be linked to any number of scenes, but I have no reservation in recommending this fascinating listen. Since all 99 tracks are untitled, and many are shorter than 30 seconds, it's a little pointless to recommend highlights: Tiger Thrush works best when you have the time to invest some serious \"deep listening\" (headphones are even better). Many of the selections seem like the result of fanatically obsessessive editing, even though I know they're merely short excerpts of Yoshida recorded at her Tokyo home. Track 82 is a loop of her witchy growl; 83 a straight take of what sounds like a baby drowning in her own saliva; the opening 23second cut sounds like something gone very wrong with your CD drive, as if it was suddenly unable to play the album and began melting the lens instead. I could go through the whole thing like this, but I doubt it would give you a good idea of the experience. Technically speaking, Yoshida (along with fellow improviser Toshimaru Nakamura, who mastered the disc) shares much with the Japanese onkyo performers, in her use of silence and natural sound. Some of the tracks use the ambience of her home (and the various sounds outside her window) as counterpoint to her own emissions. Track 85 features a loop of her voice singing a straight tone, but is colored by what was probably accidental feedback from her microphone; this leads directly to a track where her growl is transformed into a warning siren. In both cases, minimal compositional elements are used to magical effect and though short in duration, should delight anyone who thinks they've got a handle on the capabilities of the human voice. More than that, it is hypnotic music; casting as potent a spell as any ambient recording I can think of. Even though it's difficult to classify this music as straight improvisation, some folks averse to that may very well have the same reaction. Tiger Thrush is hardly the roomclearing storm that some of her peers in Japan's improvised music scene have been known to release (see Otomo Yoshihide's stereodestroying The Night Before the Death of the Sampling Virus as both a prime suspect, and prelude to all of onkyo), but if you aren't prepared to accept the \"pictorial dictionary\" of all the sounds Yoshida is able to produce, it could be a long, maddening trip. As I see it, this music is not only mesmerizing because of her voice and subtle electronic manipulations, but because it manages to appeal to me on the same level as any other \"traditionally\" beautiful recording. No matter from what angle you approach the record, I figure everyone could use another one of those. "}