{"label":" Lookout! / Panic Button","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8734/homepage_large.a792f860.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Yesterday's Kids","title":"Can't Hear Nothin'","text":" I wish more bands had liner notes like Yesterday's Kids. Some bands don't even have liner notes at all, usually due to laziness or extreme pretentiousness, and most offer only a few bare details. But these three guys (one can assume by their name that they must be adults today) took some time to put a little humor and personality into their liners, offering insight into each of the songs with disarming little anecdotes. This can, of course, be taken to negative extremes, but in this case, it's a nice introduction to the band you're about to listen to, and serves to highlight some of the things you might otherwise miss. In truth, I still can't really find some of the things they talk about putting into these songs (I swear to god there's only one tiny instance of cowbell on this record, though they credit it on a full third of the tracks), but the snapshot of the band's personality is welcome all the same. And while they exhibit a lot of healthy ambition, Yesterday's Kids are fundamentally a pop/punk trio, for better or worse. I think about it as the kind of record I'd like to listen to on the way home from work, but not the kind of record I'd want to listen to at home it's diversionary and fun, sometimes even great, but not very deep. The Kids open with \"(Ode to) Shadowy Men on a Shadowy Planet\", a tribute to the Ontario surfpunks responsible for the \"Kids in the Hall\" theme song. It's an apt enough opener, as it lays out their blueprint ringing, lightly distorted guitars, lockstep drums, twopart harmonies, and melodies designed to sit in your ear. By and large, this is what they stick with, and it works most of the time \"I Wanna Be Alone (With You)\", \"Keep It Down\" and \"Eighteen\" are three sparkling tracks in a row, a veritable sugar rush of punchy pop. Elsewhere, things run together a bit, and songs like the swaggering \"The Shithead\" flounder on their length or lack of sonic variety. A generic song or two is a hard thing for a band like this to avoid, and Yesterday's Kids don't escape that pitfall. However, they compensate with a little imagination, like the slip into a waltz that ends \"I Don't Care\", or the strings that pop up here and there. In fact, it's violinist Sara Farenholz's contribution to \"Trouble on the Way\" that provides the album's most epiphanous moment. The band adds a harmonica to their usual mix in the verses, enlivening the song's chugging riffs, but it's during the bridge where the music suddenly becomes clear and Farenholz's violin bubbles up like lava for a brief, fleeting moment that you get the best idea of what this band is capable of. With a few more moments like that on their next record, Yesterday's Kids could graduate completely from any pop/punk label a critic like me could throw at them. And of course, they could always use more cowbell. At the very least, they've proven themselves an able, ambitious band on their second album, and their continued maturation promises good things in the future. "}