{"label":" Polydor","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8737/homepage_large.9adb348d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Yeah Yeah Yeahs","title":"Pin EP","text":" For all the faults and imperfections that continue to show up in the Yeah Yeah Yeahs' body of work (repetitive arrangements in Nick Zinner's lessinspired moments, Karen's playacting testing the limits of endurance), the results are staggering when they bring the full weight of their collective abilities to bear. Between Zinner's cutting drones, Chase's lurking rhythms, and Karen's (like it or not) ability to grab a listener's, uh, attention, the YYY's at their best sound less like a sleazy threepiece and more like a relentless troop battling from trenches. \"Rich\", \"Y Control\", and most of all the flawless mixture of vitriol and vulnerability in \"Maps\" are their crowning achievements, and they can release singles until the wheel of fashion finally turns and strands them at the Salvation Army, but if they don't single out any of these songs, they're missing the point. We should all be thankful for small favors, though, as \"Pin\" at least manages to convey a fraction of the overwhelming force they have at their disposal. What it lacks in the dragstrip dynamics and pacing of \"Date with the Night\" it compensates for with a brooding ebb and flow; stilted treble chords give way to a thunderous crash distortion, but that tidal rush is back to sea before the next verse, only to repeat the cycle one more time. The lyrics imply gritty urbanity, but only in shadowy terms: \"Things are feeling thin,\" sings Karen over the tense, skeletal accompaniment, giving \"Pin\" an appropriately halfhearted, worldweary sound. It's not a frequent pose, but it's every bit as attractive as the bedroom antics Karen typically adopts, and more impressive for its relative rarity. \"I like to sleep with them/ I know, I know.\" Yeah, Karen, so do we. Even if \"Pin\" doesn't quite encapsulate the sheer power the band has at their disposal, there's also a video for it, so that's something, right? Who wouldn't want to see that? I sure as shit wouldn't not want to, but my computer choked to death on what's allegedly a \"creepy\", \"Quay Brothersinspired\" piece of rock action, and despite all my protestations to the contrary, this pile of circuits (that's charitably one step removed from an EtchaSketch) just wasn't having it. All I got were occasional stillframes as Karen O \"goes back in\" to a door, turns into an action figure of some sort, gets pins stuck in her (clever); the slideshow presentation I got made it into the worst stopmotion video ever, though, so I can't comment. It's just a video, it shouldn't take much firepower to dazzle my senses with Karen's trip through the looking glass, should it? Maybe if this machine was actually a multimillion dollar supercomputer that was just pretending to be obsolete, it would've run properly... Wiat what? Was that a dig at the Yeah Yeah Yeahs? Just a little, but hell, my temporary case of technoenvy makes me want to tear up my trucker's cap in bitter defeat. What can I say? So no indepth symbolism analysis, no talk of Christanalogs or phallic portrayals, folks; I'm as disappointed as you are, but just remember that whatever I say here about the music (the meat of any album), the disc also includes a video (the gristle). I hear it's good. It'd better be, too, because when you come right down to it, the meat of this thing is only fair. \"Pin\"'s qualified strengths aside, the unmistakable failing of this EP remains that the YYY's seemingly have yet to realize where their strengths lie as a band and for a group with so much potential, it's infuriating to witness yet another wrong turn. Yet, somehow, the YYY's continue to surprise me; they steer into the skid and end up in totally foreign territory. The last time they tried to navigate the sticky terrain of \"experimental\" mixes (with a fuzzy, indistinct rendering of \"Pin\", no less) on the disastrous Machine EP, they seemed hopelessly lost; it's a wonder they made it back in time to record their album. If the Bsides of this single shows anything, though, it's that they learned from their mistakes. The \"Pandaworksforthecops\" remix of \"Rich\" crosses the haunting harmonic backing of the original with \"Jingle Bells\" and a drummers convention; while Nick and Karen overdose on valium, Brian pulls out all the percussive stops bells that are singularly disconcerting in their monotony, an overpowering drum loop, and ghostly stick clattering in the background running roughshod over mumbled lyrics and faintly plucked strings. Only hypnotic whole tones reminiscent of the original keep it recognizable as anything other than a totally new composition, but its brilliant bleakness only serves to clear the set for baffling, if weirdly impressive, finale: a cover of Liars' \"Mr. You're on Fire, Mr.\" I'll concede this: in simple, broad strokes, the YYY's have managed to cover Liars in a way that band would surely be proud of; everything outside of the most explicit defining characteristics of the original, the rawest of the raw essentials, is hollowed out and discarded. Zinner's guitar is distorted to lifeless tones, Chase provides nothing beyond a lone snare hit in terrifying rhythm to pace the track, and the lyrics are beyond indecipherable, Karen's voice barely more than a distorted, lazy shriek through the course of the song. It's utterly pulseless: a draining, yawning void in place of Liars' tightly wound dancepunk mania, and in some ways, it's incredibly smart. Nothing could be closer in spirit to the Liars' everpresent desire to stay one step ahead of expectations, even if it's not an easy thing to take in and of itself. Just when it seemed like the YYY's could still be nothing but a talented onetrick pony (and luckily for all involved), they demonstrate some unexpected depth beyond even the beauty of \"Maps\". The Bsides of this single carry the day, actually building on the offkilter rock of \"Pin\", turning the jittery, brittle nerves to some good use after all. Now the real is question is not whether they can learn from past errors, but current successes, and that remains to be seen; after all, even a one trick pony can get lucky. "}