{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8739/homepage_large.13936b40.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Carr","artist":"Yeah Yeah Yeahs","title":"Fever to Tell","text":" Can a band build an entire career, a legacy even, on a handful of EPs and a boundless torrent of press? How many party dresses need to take a beer bath before the Yeah Yeah Yeahs drop the rock icon pastiche and just play some music? Over and over again, they've been accused of empty posturing, wallowing in scrofulous, selfconscious \"irony,\" disguising themselves Predatorstyle as the public conception of who they were supposed to be rather than who they actually are. And yet (dramatic pause), until the stylists and spinmongers start writing the music, why does this still have to matter? The band plays the blistering, bassless hand they're dealt, plus or minus the cards up their designer sleeves, and make the \"right moves.\" More power to them; hype, famously, is a bitch, a shrew, and in the end, it's still theirs to try and tame. No one wants to be the illfated morningafter tat on the assend of the garagerock revival, after all. The really stupid part of all this, though, is that the shitstorm of publicity that's been hanging overhead the Yeah Yeah Yeahs is based on all of, what, eight songs? Two EP/singles? Robert Pollard throws away eight songs before breakfast and you sure as hell don't see him on the cover of NME. Well, hold yr breath, kids. The YYY's have finally released the plot element that their garagetoriches Cinderella II story has most sorely lacked: The FullLength Album. This is gonna make 'em rockstars, everybody! The final story arc and how's this for irony will conclude with them shedding their personas here, showing everyone that they've got what it takes to endure, and living happily ever after as the saviors of rock 'n' rollllll... Except, they don't do any of that. Or maybe (and this is only an hypothesis) they were never all that guilty of the heinous crimes of Fashion they've been charged with in the first place? Either way, here it is, Fever to Tell, and they just play the same guitar/drums rock they have since the beginning what'd you expect? Sure, you can practically feel Karen O looking over her shoulder for approval with every fauxerotic squeal or disdainful shout, and a number of these tracks fall flat entirely because of the knowing, brutal swagger they try so damn hard to affect. And when it's all over, the slowburning, gently chaotic dissolve of \"No No No\" (even the title is selfconscious) or the bluesy strut of \"Black Tongue\" will wither under anything more than passing scrutiny, but more will remain. Reason is, first and foremost, the nearfaultless musical support at the core of the YYY's: Nick Zinner and Brian Chase. If you can hear (or even care to try to hear, which you shouldn't) an ounce of \"posture\" in Zinner's thunderous guitar licks or Chase's relentless percussive assault, then you're a more cynical man (or woman) than I. The rhythms are never very complicated, but when it counts, Chase pounds away with enough precise desperation to project an unfailing sense of urgency; it carries through even the more emotional tracks, lending the rare vulnerability a tragic sort of transience. Between the vicious buzz and slender trill of Zinner's strings is a breathtaking range the robotically looped harmonics of \"Rich\" coupled with the layered crunch of the wallofsound that collapses on top of them; the stop/start emergencyroom shriek of \"Date With a Night\". Even Karen O seems stunned by the anthemic scope of the blazing, surflike guitar and Chase's deafening percussion on \"Y Control\"; she turns in one of her most subdued vocals, as if it's all she can do just to keep up. Not coincidentally, it's also one of her most impressive turns. That's not O's only compelling performance, though there are a couple moments when she drops her lacquered sneers and teases, and when this happens, it suddenly becomes very difficult to avoid seeing the music in a different light. Of course, her success varies. At times, she's the linchpin of the band and not just because her gratuitous sexual tension has become their trademark while at others she's the weakest link. The problem here is that, while the guys are definitely on here, they're still nowhere near groundbreaking, and as a result, they rise and fall depending largely on Karen's delivery. Her playacting is what got the Yeah Yeah Yeahs slapped with the charges of shallow insincerity in the first place. It shouldn't matter if it's a façade, but it does; knowing beforehand what you're dealing with or not, it becomes very trying to accept every sleazy squeak as part of her routine. If the band ever wants to really dump these lingering doubts for good, they'll need to overcome this obstacle. Still, for proof that the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, at their core, make a better band than they do runway trendsetters, one need look no further than Fever to Tell's singular true moment of clarity a tune of such moving grace I can scarcely believe they're responsible for it \"Maps\". Though the song is sadly in a class by itself on this record (it would take about two seconds to call roll for the tunes that even come close), absolutely everything falls into place here. The drums are gentle enough to simply caress the tune, but still pressing enough to make it clear that this second of happiness is fleeting, and Zinner's guitar work is easily his best to date, equal parts joy and discord. But it's Karen's vocals that steal the show; for once, they fairly drip genuine, regretful emotion: When she sings, \"Lay off/ Don't stray/ My kind is your kind/ I'll stay the same.../ They don't love you like I love you,\" almost on the verge of defeated tears, the emotive response it produces is very real, and that means a lot. "}