{"label":" P-Vine","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8745/homepage_large.1771fc45.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Seiichi Yamamoto","title":"Crown of Fuzzy Groove","text":" Follow this path to creamy nirvana: destroy cats, consume dangerous chemicals, make noise, practice a little bit, organize chaos, rinse and repeat over a twenty year cycle, come out alive. If you're lucky, you might even notice the change within; the transformation from a violent, terminally bored slackjaw into a wise old new age magician. It happens to the best of them. Why, it happened to (former?) Boredoms guitarist Seiichi Yamamoto, who hasn't been this tranquil on record since Chocolate Synthesizer. There and back again: a fuzzy groove tale. Or, how I learned to stop worrying about my hardcore cred and bathe in the green and gold milk of Osaka. Yamamoto appears on every Boredoms release except their 1986 debut seveninch, but he will not appear on their next one. Vooredoms (as Eye has christened their current formation) cut their ties to rock when their guitarist and bassist left, and I see this in two ways. In one sense, it is a very interesting way of making the leap to a new plane, perhaps their Jupiter and Beyond. On the other hand, as Crown of Fuzzy Groove makes clear, when Yamamoto left, he may have taken their heart with him.Crown is Yamamoto's first solo disc that isn't comprised of solo guitar improvisations, and it's dissimilar in almost every way not only to his previous outings, but also to his most famous nonBore projects Rovo and Omoide Hatoba. Where the latter band played skewed pop and punky psyche, and the former sprightly postrock, this record is milky ambience to the core. There are plenty of guitars to be found, but no riffs (substitute melodies who'd have thought?) or even distortion. Distortion would disturb the carefully balanced ensemble on this album; no one voice is more dominant than another. Gently tapped handpercussion and cymbal swells provide the spark for a series of miniepics that vary from exotic futurelounge to allout Calgon moments. Airy synth patch upon airy synth patch fill all the blank space and then some, and there's just enough electroblip to keep the sine wave 'n' sampler crowd happy. \"Whity\" begins with a drawnout introduction that sounds similar to some of Eye's airplaneinspace experiments on the last Rebore CD. After takeoff, the now very familiar sound of jungle rhythms and electronic drone take up the slack. It's familiar because that seems to have been the order of things for this camp over the last several years, but where Yamamoto's concept differs is in what's emphasized. Chiefly, this isn't a percussive rave with ornamental sound effects; it's a remarkably rich tonal atmosphere with subtle rhythmic propulsion. In short, it's the inverse of Vision Creation Newsun. Similarly, \"Mantral\" takes a melody that might've been a communal chant in another time and uses it as the glue that holds together a blissedout trance. Twelve minutes of aural Cool Whip, and at no point does the \"noise\" ever seem noisy. Folks expecting Boredoms II will probably be bummed by the general calm of this record, and that goes double for anyone expecting another Omoide Hatoba. Crown is something you put on after getting high, to watch the ceiling spin to. There's no danger of being hit with something unexpected halfway through a groove, and while that might be disheartening to longtime shockcity citizens, I take it as refined clarity from Yamamoto. "}