{"label":" Tzadik","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8756/homepage_large.af5e5814.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Tatsuya Yoshida / Satoko Fujii","title":"Erans","text":" Piano soothes the savage beast or in this case, the selfproclaimed \"devil from the East\" Ruins drummer Tatsuya Yoshida. Ever since he hooked up with jazz pianist Satoko Fujii at the outset of the decade, I've noticed a calmer tendency in his music; be it a greater willingness to emphasize improvisation and chamberjazz dynamics, or just his gradual distancing from manic, screeching, distorted chaos, the guy seems somehow less combustible than in previous years. Although longtime fans somewhat mourn the days when he might have spent an entire LP side exorcising demons from his larynx, I welcome the change. Yoshida no longer needs to prove his endurance or facility with pisstake screaming etudes, nor does he need to ram out a hundred more avantzeuhl tunes to express himself.By the same token, Fujii's collaboration with the drummer seems to have brought out her most concise and aggressive qualities. While her big band releases (Eastern and Western) were admirably open to experimentation and the kind of eclectic sound palette, I've always thought she was at her best in a small group. With Yoshida, her pieces seem to unfold without any hint of rehearsed mannerisms or particular obligation to appease the jazz tradition. Erans is their second release as a duo, and fourth together if you include their work with Fujii Quartet. Judging by the music therein, they're only getting better together.The two performers split writing duties down the middle, and share composer credits on two songs. The first of those is the excellent title track, beginning as impressionistic rumbles from Yoshida's kit and fragmented runs by Fujii. They gradually build up tension with faster and faster statements before Fujii announces the head with a short unison fanfare and the pair nails accents together in a similar fashion as most other Yoshida projects. The difference here is in both the refined precision of the playing (it's certainly the closest to straight jazz Yoshida has come), and in the advanced harmonic ideas Fujii introduces. And although the other writing collaboration, \"Shimesaba\", presents a completely different mood imagine modern jazz and speeddisco crossed with the Charleston the willingness to compliment and follow one another marks the sign of a mature group, one whose aims betray forward momentum at all costs.Yoshida's \"Feirsttix\" appears twice on the CD, once as an instrumental and later adding vocals. It's the kind of tune that would sound perfectly at home on a Ruins record, but again, Fujii's way with harmonic development and her ease with covering the entire range of her instrument to lend the broadest possible range of sound to this music are what make Erans an invigorating, accommodating listen. Her own pieces, like the ECMtinged, oddmeter \"Westerlies\" or RavelmeetsCecil Taylor vignette \"Iwashi No Uroko\", shine via restrained, relaxed performance and a highly sophisticated use of rhythm that almost always perfectly offsets Yoshida's more brawny style. And somehow, they always manage to lock onto each other during the structured moments, even after spending most of the CD exploring areas far outside the lead sheet. \"Westerlies\", in particular, should be held as an example of how to fuse explosiveness with subtlety in jazz without seeming contrived or convoluted.Fans of either musician should grab hold of Erans, but perhaps better, modern smallgroup jazz listeners in general will find much to enjoy here. Though ten years ago it would have been crazy to assume that Yoshida might one day find an audience among the bookstore and coffeetable socialites, this record is right at the cusp of being accessible to jazz snobs and noise freaks alike. And the best news is that nobody had to compromise to get to that point; it was merely a matter of finding the right musical partner. "}