{"label":" CDR","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8760/homepage_large.59aa0442.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Liam Singer","artist":"D. Yellow Swans","title":"Duh Yellow Swans","text":" If you need to anger one of those creative types in a pinch, go ahead and politely ponder their paintings, sit through their show, or read their newest story. Then kind of lean back, take a bite of food (if available), and confidently intone, \"I don't get it.\" It's the phrase surest to infuriate somebody who's spent hours in the basement attempting to pour the contents of their head into a perceptible form. And though I used to nod appreciatively for fear of seeming stupid, it's also the way I once felt about a lot of abstract, texturebased music that was presented to me anything from Black Dice and the NoNeck Blues Band to John Zorn, Stockhausen, and Xenakis. Without objective criteria like virtuosity, beauty, or complexity with which to judge its quality, I felt I was missing something that others could hear, some scale on which to separate works of genius from the incoherent stabs of a musician incapable of anything else.Of course, when I succeeded in relaxing and opening my mind to such music, I realized that there really is an easy scale of quality whether or not anything about it makes you want to listen again once it's over. I came to understand that if the journey created in such works is worth taking again, for any reason, then its value is determined by your level of interest. I offer my own revelations to clarify the compliment, then, when I say that D. Yellow Swans make sprawling, noisebased pieces, halforganized out of improv sessions, that I'm interested in hearing repeatedly.D. Yellow Swans, comprised of Gabriel Mindel and Peter Swanson, formed about three years ago in Portland, Oregon, and have recently relocated to the Bay Area. Though they began with structured experiments in aggro punk, they became increasingly interested in the results of their improvisations, and adopted a freer, textured, dronedriven sound that might just establish them as a jamband for the Lightning Bolt set. Their music still contains elements of punk, but it's punk pried apart and splattered across 15minute canvasses.Though they don't shy away from the abrasive, their style channels the psychedelic sprawl of Yume Bitsu as much as the feedback walls of Thurston Moore (whom they've opened for). And D. Yellow Swans are all about uplift. Their stated goal is attaining \"Freedom, Happiness, Love, and the sharing and incitement of these feelings in others. Positivity. Total Liberation.\" The band's first proper release will be out soon on the Narnack label, but they've been selling the selfreleased Duh Yellow Swans on their recent tours and over the web.As dissimilar as certain sonic aspects of D. Yellow Swans are to Tortoise and their Thrill Jockey labelmates, such music shares a common principle of process over material that is, the nature of the musical building blocks they begin with aren't as important as the manner in which they're manipulated. This focus on evolution and texture, as well as a struggle to remain open to all musical directions, is what gives the pieces their sense of coherent expansiveness. In the music of D. Yellow Swans, disparate, seemingly aimless musical elements drift together and coalesce into a block of sound. Seamless transitions usher you from one place to the next, until you find yourself in an entirely new landscape. As in Tortoise's \"Djed\", the context is constantly widened, nothing beyond manipulation or reconsideration. The two nameless pieces of Duh are built out of guitars, samples, amplifier hums, drum machines, effects processors, and, when the spirit moves them, garbled screaming. They move from atmospheric drones to Boredomsstyle chanting and pounding, fearless of either extreme.Duh Yellow Swans is clearly an early album from two people who are still fully learning what makes the other musically tick, but such apparent conflict gives the music a palpable feel of its creation. D. Yellow Swans are struggling to free all possibilities in playing and listening, and convert those who might not perk up at the mention of \"improvised noise.\" Duh demonstrates their propensity to head any number of directions, and if they don't get too caught up in defining themselves then they'll be able to take them all at once. "}