{"label":" Deleted Art / PACrec","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8761/homepage_large.bbf53212.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Yellow Swans","title":"Dreamed","text":" There's nothing extreme about Yellow Swans. Extremists are universally shunned by normal folk; they lurk beyond the outer fringes of society, where no one with a sweet corn niblet of sense dares tread. Extremists don't push boundaries, they pretend to ignore them then return to defecate on the masses, spiteful cretins they are. Extremists don't bother releasing records; they're local basement legends, if anything. Extremists don't have brethren who are signed to Sub Pop. Okay, okay so Yellow Swans make industrial noise. (I thought I had ya!) But theirs is sonic stench that's totally worth listening to. Think of Dreamed as kind of like Norwegian Christmas Pudding: Finding the almond at its center doesn't promise extra presents from St. Nick, but it will help you attain inner peace. As with most music of its ilk, the trick is finding the Eye of the storm. On Dreamed, Yellow Swans make the task seem easy: It's not the noise, but the rhythm, that dominates. Saddle up and take the 15minute \"Garrison\" for a ride. Now double back and imagine the song without its insistent, pinioning drum machines and ask yourself if without them you would have made it half as far. Even sans the chicks and clicks, Dreamed is still gentile compared to the shockandawe of last year's Bring the Neon War Home. By Swans' standards, Dreamed is like an hourlong Om, so there's some titular propriety. The album, if not exactly lullabylike, is impressively fluid. A sturdy spine of drone withstands the rigors of furious industrial beats, chopped feedback like metallic dandruff, and, of course, the electronoise tool of choice, dot matrix printer squalls. The band even treats us to some rare melody. Seething with oversaturated guitar swells and whirls of chirruping noise that can only be described as the sound of all the world's digital information being sucked through a wormhole, \"Drowning in Paradise\" is the most terrestrial thing Yellow Swans have done. It's more Eno than Whitehouse. Some might call it pleasant. Still, noiseniks will be noiseniks. Swans are acrimonious little creatures, and Dreamed doesn't hesitate to chomp a dangling finger or two. Echoey, indecipherable utterances on \"Gold Rush\" and \"Garrison\" add an eerie depth, suggesting that if there's life within these miasmas, inhabitants aren't breathing clean air or sending their kids to the Friends Academy. Venushot opener \"Untitled\", this collection's harshest (and, mercifully, shortest) track, tears through sound like old terry cloth using all manners of oscillators and torture devices. Many a soulseeker won't make it through this first, grisly test of will. Dismiss it on earprotection grounds if you must, but, as an entry point into Yellow Swans' scabrous oeuvre, Dreamed is ideal. "}