{"label":" Epitaph","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8765/homepage_large.1c6ae789.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Youth Group","title":"Skeleton Jar","text":" As I remember, youth group was an awkward gathering of churchgoing teens to keep them occupied under the guise of learning more about their religion. When I was forced to attend, I spent my own time there faking seizures and trying to talk to girls. Such was the leniency of the Presbyterian Church. Maybe the term means something different in Youth Group's home country of Australia, as the band are neither that fun nor that painful (respectively). They aren't that anything, really. The best thing I can say about Youth Group is that if there's a difference between merely average and painfully mediocre, Skeleton Jar is on the upswing of that curve. Singer Toby Martins' voice is reminiscent of James' Tim Booth, expressive but without quite the same range or control. Couple his mannered delivery with basic, singsong melodies, and add them to predictable progressions and dull rhythms, and there isn't much about Skeleton Jar to recommend. The album is dominated by guitars playing droning arpeggios in ticktock rhythms, cranking up the distortion just as the chorus approaches like a tired employee punching in for work. Songs like \"SeeSaw\" appropriate slow indie pop jangle much the way Death Cab for Cutie once did, though it becomes a limp power ballad by the chorus. \"Baby Body\" is a step in the right direction, at least compared to the rest of the record. Beginning with acoustic plucking and the soft pounding of the bass drum, it shifts dynamics and adds some spirit to their performance for the second verse. However, hit the pause button before then, and you could probably sing the simple chorus melody before you even hear it. While they avoid slipping into cringing emo, they could take a moment or two to actually emote, as they do on the album's closer, \"Piece of Wood\". Skeleton Jar gives a clear blueprint of what the band wants to sound like, but adds nothing unexpected to the formula. The album's biggest surprise is that it was released by Epitaph, who went so far as to slap a quote from Death Cab guitarist and producer Chris Walla on the album's front sticker. To whit: Skeleton Jar is \"sweet and dear in a world stolen by cynics\"; \"cynics\" likely encompassing critics trying to review the album honestly, and also that, \"If you don't love them, your heart is dead.\" Could you please put a more original record in my heart's coffin before you nail it shut and push it out to sea? Thanks, Chris. "}