{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8769/homepage_large.37ab8335.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Yura Yura Teikoku","title":"Sweet Spot","text":" Yura Yura Teikoku have experienced about as much success as an underground rock group can in their native Japan. Their following has grown steadily in the almost 20 years since they began as a fourpiece, psychedelic garage band, despite enduring countless lineup changes. In the meantime, they've leapfrogged from their own tiny label to various larger indies and finally to the majors, each time gaining wider exposure and more popularity. At this point their music can even be found in Japan's famous karaoke bars, allowing patrons to drunkenly experience their own version of the band's psychedelic freakouts. Yet Yura Yura Teikoku have remained virtually unknown outside of their home land. While their concerts sell out in minutes in Japan, they've only played elsewhere a small handful of times. If the crowds at two N.Y. appearances in 2005 and the buzz since those performances are any indication, however, then it would seem that the band is poised to make a name for themselves stateside. After all, the U.S. underground has a history of adoring Japanese psych rock imports. But whereas Acid Mothers Temple and DMBQ utilize walls of noise and swirling instrumentation, Yura Yura Teikoku have streamlined their sound, creating psychpop that can be quiet and sparse one moment and infectiously catchy the next.Sweet Spot begins with its longest track, \"2005 Nen Sakairyoko\", a minimalist exploration of bluesy psychrock. Everything starts quietly, from the highhat and rimshot beat to the plucky, reverbed guitar. Frontman Shintaro Sakamoto's distorted vocals are right up front, though, and as the track progresses, they are joined by the various hums and buzzes that threaten to smother the instruments to death. \"Robot Deshita\" is built almost entirely on a simple drum beat until tinkling piano and mechanical squeals segue into scifi noise about halfway through.  Yura Yura Teikoku's earlier records were much more grounded in garage rock, and there are still a few tracks here that hearken back to that earlier, more primal sound. \"Kyusyo\" is this album's noisiest, with guitars layered to dizzying effects. \"Hate Ningen Ha?\" borderlines on B52's territory with its catchy, twangy guitar line, and falsetto whooing throughout the verses. But the majority of the record is atmospheric and reserved, giving the instruments plenty of room to do their own thing. The band's voice is unique, and despite borrowing from many American bands from the 1960s and 70s, it's impossible to simply label Sweet Spot as a Japanese version of American psychrock.  "}