{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8786/homepage_large.a867c890.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Earl Zinger","title":"Put Your Phazers On Stun Throw Your Health Food Skyward","text":" Priests must get sick of this question: \"Why do bad things happen to good people?\" I've asked, consulted holy writings, quibbled semantics with philosophers but I've never received a satisfactory answer. But now, I think I've got the solution, thanks to Earl Zinger's album Put Your Phazers On Stun. Bad things don't happen to good people good people just make bad choices. Actually, Earl Zinger does not exist. He's as much a cartoon as 2D, Murdoch, and the other Gorillaz. The sorryass Wizard of Oz behind the Earl Zinger curtain is unfortunately jazzfunker Rob Gallagher. Gallagher was a founder member of hempy jazzpoetry fusioneers, Galliano, and lately the mastermind behind the ace Two Banks of Four project. I first encountered Two Banks of Four on some nujazz compilation or other and the track \"Skylines Over Rooftops\" shone out luminously from the rest of the oohthat'sjazz! diminished chord mush. With a fragile, fractured drum pattern coupled with a voice suggesting Sam Cooke covering the Blue Nile's \"The Downtown Lights,\" I was immediately smitten with Two Banks of Four. Amassing all Two Banks of Four material didn't take long  there's just the City Watching album and an accompanying remix CD. I'd expected Gallagher to turn out another latenight masterpiece eerie, brooding, yet comforting. Alas, no. Put Your Phazers On Stun is meant to satirize dance music, especially the jazzfunk style that Ladbroke Grove hipsters adore. Gallagher's turned out a comedypoetry album Earl Zinger is Wendy Cope or Pam Ayers for slaphappy jazzbos. The songs are essentially suckerpunches at pretentious twats who have to get the latest Bugz in the Attic before anyone else (\"Saturday Morning Rush\"). On \"Escape to Ibiza,\" Zinger mocks salmonpink Brits who swarm the blissful island of Ibiza, but with none of the gleeful spite that Blur used for \"Girls and Boys.\" Sorry, you'll get more yucks for your bucks if you slap Jamiroquai into the stereo and fall out over Jason Kay's gigantic selfdelusion.Set Your Phazers On Stun fails in comparison to albums such as John Cooper Clarke's Me and My Big Mouth, because Gallagher's impotent rimshot rhymes are no match for Clarke's cruel Manchester wit. The tiresome production on Put Your Phazers On Stun is not even on the same landmass as the futuristic artpunk that Martin Hannant fashioned for Clarke. Dance music needs acts like V/VM, Moodyman, and Kid 606 to rip into its bloated stomach and let the world inhale the fetid stench of its megabucks complacence. Put Your Phazers On Stun is not part of the revolution rather, it's complicit in dance music's demise by the slightness of its scenester references and selfimportant injokes. "}