{"label":" Milan","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8800/homepage_large.59428e12.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Dominique Leone","artist":"Tom Zé / Gilberto Assis","title":"Santagustin","text":" Tom Zé is a genius. The Brazilian (with a stopover in Salvador) singer, guitarist and composer has floored me over the last couple of years with records like 1972's Se o Caso é Chorar, 1973's Todos os Olhos, 1976's Estudando o Samba and 1978's Correio da Estação do Brás all featuring his buoyant, idiosyncratic songs and peculiar takes on traditional Brazilian folk music. In the early 60s, he made a name for himself among musicians by performing with icons Caetano Veloso and Gilberto Gil in Salvador, playing in musicals, which led to the lot of them being courted by RCA as solo artists. Yet, despite a background in both folk and classical music, Zé's music was virtually ignored outside of his peers.Though his first solo LP was released in 1968, it wasn't until David Byrne issued a greatest hits set in 1990 on Luaka Bop that Zé received anything close to his due. In fact, for much of the 80s, Zé was retired from music, working as a gas station attendant for his nephew. Byrne had Arto Lindsay supply info on the allbutlost composer, and over the course of the 90s, Zé was transformed from obscure cult figure into revered songwriter, rightly placed alongside his early collaborators Veloso and Gil. I can say that I have yet to hear a bad record by the guy, including his 90s comeback albums Hips of Tradition (1992) and Fabrication Defect: Com Defeito de Fabricao (1998). Strike that. I have yet to hear a Zé record that wasn't pretty great and in light of Animal Collective's recent Brazilian oddysseys, now is as good a time as any to seek out one of the country's original outsiders.Santagustin finds Zé returning to his roots in theater, as he teams with composer Gilberto Assis to provide music for the ballet troupe Grupo Corpo. Ballet? Yes, but check it: It's got homemade answering machine IDM, discordant guitars and flutes with \"Tom Sawyer\" drums, nondiscordant guitars and mandolins that will appeal to the same sect of Brazilian music lovers who dug Sung Tongs, guys and gals going, \"Geeahhh, ohwayohway, ohwaaayyy!\", and lots of pitter patter Brazilian percussion. Apparently, Zé based his music on the ideas of Christian philosopher Saint Augustine, though to read a translation of his comments in the CD booklet is to enter a convoluted world of whimsical theory: \"The technique of inducing a controlled infection in order to produce an antidote is well known. In this instance, through controlled error in the tonal functions we create a ferment ranging by degrees between rage and inoculation.\" It goes on like this. Fortunately, most of this (wordless) music is its own reward.Opener \"Marco da Era\" begins as a cold, repetitive cellphone ring, moving subtly into tones from other phones and eventually morphing into microbeat electronica. The high pitches and digital precision sound closer to Mille Plateaux than Bahia, and when the messy splatter of brass that ends the piece hits, I wonder if I somehow managed to insert the wrong CD. However, \"Ayres da Mantiqueira\" with synthflute, offkey whistling, pizzicato plucking and counterpoint of acoustic and electric guitar betrays Zé as the heart of this music. Likewise, the bouncy, classically tinged \"Nogueira do Monte\" sounds practically lifted from one of Zé's mid70s LPs, with immediately distinctive guitar figures and a vocal melody fit for restless kings.\"PixinguimRasqueira\" also features a Zé trademark of short, wordless vocal accents like \"oh!\" and \"ah!\" used as percussive thuds and pings, amid more intricate acoustic guitar arpeggios and bizarre horn lines sounding part of a demented circus orchestra. Throughout the CD, there is a fauxchamber orchestral feel (which gets the better of my interest on the fairly tedious \"CiroGberto\"), though its best moments are invariably the bubbliest and most infectiously catchy. I wouldn't recommend anyone start with Santagustin as an entry into Zé's music, but fans will easily pick out the joyous, eccentric strains of his stuff. "}