{"label":" Polyvinyl","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8812/homepage_large.5641edee.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"ZZZZ","title":"Palm Reader","text":" The saxophone unless played with the utmost restraint is the cryingbabyinamovietheater of musical instruments. You've got your bag of popcorn and enormous Sierra Mist, feet propped up on the cup holders, the teenagers behind you scolded into tentative silence basically, you're all settled in, when a brassy squeal jars you out of your trance and makes you painfully jab your inner cheek with your straw. And that stain in your lap better be \"buttery topping\" that leaked through that bag there, hairtrigger. Steve Sostak's altosax playing is adept but hardly restrained, a moot point given that Palm Reader is an entire theater full of wailing infants. Stosak formed ZZZZ (pronounced \"chkchkchk\" just kidding, I think it's \"zeez\") after his saxladen postrock band Sweep the Leg Johnny disbanded, enlisting his former group's bassist John Brady, classically trained electric pianist Ellen Bunch, and former Tekulvi drummer Greg Sharp. Those of you who've ever wondered what a cross between Drums and Tuba, Squirrel Nut Zippers, and Fiery Furnaces might sound like are some kind of damn weirdoes: Who sits around wondering what different combinations of bands would sound like? Well, here's your answer anyway. The Drums and Tuba comparison is especially salient, except that ZZZZ eschews D&T;'s varied moods and keeps the pedal to the metal. It's all wildly swerving, vaguely Eastern European math rock with delaydrenched horns and keys waltzing across rumbling rhythms and dipping into swampy Cajun jazz, jaunty swing music, neckerchiefed gypsy dirges, and demented Klezmer rhythms. There's a giant accordionshaped hole in the album, but during its better moments such as the sultry bass phrase that weaves through \"Bandit King & Queen\" one is thankful for its absence: Already trembling on the brink of kitsch, accordion might have shoved Palm Reader right over the edge. The Fiery Furnaces influence finds purchase in the theatrical feint and parry of Sostak's and Bunch's vocals. They add some nice rhythmic accents to the lean swirls of \"2nd Hand Smoke\", but don't do much for the stammering stomp of \"Forget It\" and mar the middle stretch of \"Assassination Polka\" with some squirrelly scatting. On an album that's already busy, the prudence of adding two panting, slithering voices is sometimes questionable, especially as they try on campy inflections like costume jewelry. Now, this is the part where savvy readers are eyeing the band's name and waiting for the inevitable, obvious joke. No dice thrilling and exasperating by turns, Palm Reader is never anything short of (over?)stimulating, its soporific powers on par with caffeine pills or Baby's First Movie. "}