{"label":" Merge","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8820/homepage_large.72ab5b78.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Destroyer","title":"Destroyer's Rubies","text":" Those of you who keep abreast of online rumormongering might be surprised to find that the rating at the top of this page is a few points shy of a 10.0. No sooner had Destroyer's Rubies leaked to internet filetrading services than rumors (credited, as these things always are, to \"reliable sources\") began to spread that the album was to receive a perfect score from this publication. It wasn't until I actually sat down and gave Destroyer's Rubies a few good listens that the aptness of such a rumor really hit me: The album is structurally complex, thematically dense, and labyrinthine in its selfreferentiality. Dan Bejar's vocals are, like many of his indie contemporaries, yelpy and dramatic, and many of his lyrics seem preordained to serve as mp3 blog headers. In other words, the qualities that once made Destroyer albums so \"difficult\" make Destroyer's Rubies a perfect record for this critical moment. Writing about Destroyer has proven to be, to borrow a quote from Bejar himself, \"a playground for fun.\" Destroyer reviews have an unfortunate tendency to read like essays written for college seminars. Bejar's writing seems to lend itself particularly well to analysis as a \"text,\" often resulting in reviews that focus exclusively on the referentiality of his lyrics. But, while listening to Destroyer's Rubies, I think many writers myself included have been missing the point. At its core, Destroyer is an almost unfashionably conventional (or, as Bejar would say, \"classical\") project. Bejar writes wellcrafted pop/rock songs that, for all their lyrical complexity, tend to be about people (usually girls) and places he knows. The obtuse character of Bejar's lyrics strikes me not as a Waste Landesque shot at epic intertextuality, but rather a simple refusal to write things that will make sense to everybody. If more singer/songwriters wrote lyrics without stopping to explain every single reference, or reducing their thoughts to poeticsounding generalities, Bejar's lyrics might not seem so impenetrable. Yet, while some have been busy puzzling out every reference in every Destroyer song, Bejar has been quietly and consistently honing his craft, putting out albums that are uniformly strong but thoroughly unique in their musical sensibilities. Though 2001's Streethawk: A Seduction stands as his most concise and catchy record, 2002's muchmaligned This Night was a triumph in its own right. With morereverbthanguitar guitars, morefillthandrumbeat drumbeats, and choruses that mostly consisted of \"ba ba ba\" or \"la la la,\" Bejar recast musical excess as the core and foundation of a surprisingly solid rock album. With 2004's Your Blues, he dabbled in flamboyantly theatrical vocals and canned MIDI instruments, committing two of the very few aesthetic crimes that might have effectively dismantled the substantial buzz that was building around Destroyer. Which brings us to Destroyer's Rubies, Bejar's seventh, and best, fulllength as Destroyer. The album's nearly 10minute selftitled opening track makes clear that whatever Bejar may have lost in terms of precision he has made up in versatility. Structurally, \"Rubies\" is remarkably sophisticated, cycling through several miniverses but never congealing into any standard song form. Built around a few simple themes, \"Rubies\" covers a great deal of ground both musically and emotionally as Bejar's characteristically serpentine melody carries him through careening guitar hooks, military snare drum fills, and a strikingly spare acoustic guitar finale. The endlessly catchy \"Painter in Your Pocket\" opens with a similarly stark acoustic guitar intro, then unexpectedly builds up more bounce and swing than any Destroyer song to date. By the time the song reaches its final chorus, it has attained a blissful, singsongy energy that hasn't really graced any Destroyer record since Streethawk. The success of epic songs like \"Rubies\" and \"Painter in Your Pocket\" owes a great deal to Bejar's development as a singer. While Streethawk is considered by most fans to be the best Destroyer record, Bejar's vocal performance seems stifled and flat in comparison to Destroyer's Rubies. On Your Blues, Bejar's substantial growth as a vocalist was more or less entirely obscured by the record's synthetic accompaniment. But over the course of Destroyer's Rubies, Bejar coos, hisses, and snarls with uncharacteristic confidence. He's always had a knack for unique phrasing in his melodies, and his newfound expressive range greatly enhances their impact. Unfortunately, the album does falter a bit toward its end. \"A Dangerous Woman Up to a Point\" substantially outstays its welcome, ultimately coming across like a halfassed rehash of \"Looter's Follies\". \"Priest's Knees\" is sorely lacking in melody, and probably could have been omitted altogether. The album's closing track, \"Sick Priest Learns to Last Forever\", pushes the barbandfromhell aesthetic a bit too far, and winds up living up to its name in a rather unflattering manner. Given the generally high quality of the songs on Destroyer's Rubies, these bouts of sloppiness come off as particularly frustrating. But while Destroyer's Rubies is by no means a flawless record, its most glaring flaws are for the most part mercifully selfcontained. Encapsulating and elevating the best of Destroyer's back catalog, Destroyer's Rubies serves as a potent reminder that the intelligence of Bejar's songs has never obfuscated their emotional weight. "}