{"label":" Mind Fusion","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8833/homepage_large.fb84f51c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jamin Warren","artist":"Madlib","title":"Mind Fusion, Vol. 1 & 2","text":" OK, so Madlib has logorrhea... but for beats. I don't know what that's called. But my mother has Munchausen Syndrome and tried to diagnose me with it last year. I think she called it scabies or something. But it turns out I just had ashy legs. So whatever my mother thought I had, Lib certainly got it bad.To be fair, we all have it. A restless, churning in our bellies to produce and/or download more music than is humanly possible to process and to share our discoveries with the world. So then we start mp3 blogs to serve as a testimony for how dedicated musicheads we are and how we have a lot of rare shit to drop on everyone. Somehow it makes all those hours of getting banned on Soulseek worthwhile. (How you gonna be greedy with music you didn't even buy?) Madlib's got the same problem, only Japanese labels conscript him to put out his digs and productions on super rare mixtapes. And our only option is to be selfish with his work several months later. The Mind Fusion set is really a glorified mixtape with Manuel Ocampo cover art. But if you love remixes and you crush on the Beat Conductor, the first CD is a wet dream. The exclusives range from the tekridden staccato refreak of Madvillain's \"Money Folder\" to a spitfire phantom organ dirge from Diverse on the unreleased \"Space Goat\". And to think the Japanese have been hoarding this stuff since last summer... Moreover, Madlib's remixes push his differing tastes in hiphop through his personal beat appliances. As he's done with the bootleg Remixes 12\", Lib adds a patented new spin on classics and unclassics alike. So Mash Out Posse gets dressed up with a sinister juxtaposition: vaudeville keys and whipsnapping snares to evince Fame and Danzenie fiery verses on \"Stomp the Shit Out You\". Meanwhile, he reworks \"Who You Be\" from N.J. supercrew The Outsidaz with a laquered blip and ghastly organ without losing any of the energy from Red, Zee, or Pacewon's verbal claps.  Volume 2 is less Madlib the producer than Madlib the listener. It's all straightforward funk and breaks from Madlib's crates including some classic material from Henry Franklin, Elvin Jones, Marcos Valle, and Pharoah Sanders. As a fan, Madlib's prolific nature is perfect satiation. Everything he thinks he releases, allowing diehards and admirers tremendous insight and perspective into his workings. And of course, nothing's nicer than Bobby Hutcherson with a filthy cymbal and cowbell. "}