{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8842/homepage_large.676b17cc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Wizardzz","title":"Hidden City of Taurmond","text":"  Man, the Lightning Bolt guys are everywhere. Beyond participating in realdeal art exhibitions (we're talking Artforum reviews) and publishing dayglo comics, the two Brians are showcasing their musical skills in various extracurricular projects. Along with rocking it in Mindflayer, Brian Chippendale also maintains his oneman band, Black Pus, releasing handscreened CDR's on his diarreahRama label. His basstoting partner, Brian Gibson, is equally restless. Load recently put out his Sponge BobcumHarry Pussy cartoon bonanza, Barkley's Barnyard Critters: A Mystery Tail DVD, which Gibson soundtracked with his twoman sideproject, Wizardzz, who have concurrently dropped their debut fulllength, Hidden City of Taurmond. In Wizardzz, Gibson forgoes his bass duties and gives drums a go not surprisingly, this jack of every trade has skills. His breakbeats, openended jazzercise inflections, and fuckedup disco hits combine with Bug Sized Mind's Rich Porter, whose crystalcave synth lines flesh out the band's sound. Despite the heavy pounding, this is not a noise record. Wizardzz's fairytale waltzes and funhouse soundtracks are genuinely poppy, and even when things implode, the dust is often glittery. There's a scifi feel รก la Dr. Who; occasionally, I hear a bit of, well, the Who. Or at least Pete Townshend's synthesizer. Trust me: One of the trills on \"Diamond Mirror\" pays homage to \"Baba O'Riley\". Maybe \"Wizardzz\" is a riff on the Pinball Wizard why not? It makes sense, considering the arcadegame sounds this Providence duo create.  Then comes the progressive rock. \"Sailship\" could be retitled \"Starship\" it sounds like some old dude on the organ at your local church playing ELO. \"Chasing Our Shadow\" gets crunkier in the drum department; the keys, though, are a Tangerine Dream of a guy riffing Steve Vai. \"Do Come in (Tea And Chulliwigs)\" could be a prog'n'Bachlovin' dandy set loose during the seventhinning stretch at Shea.  The album has a number of sugary/catchy uptempo pieces some start to wear thin in their fucking cheeriness. Hidden City of Taurmond 's most enjoyable moments occur when things freak out the circus drops back and the palette get overloaded, cracking into Art Blakey spasmodic: the clattering, sweaty \"Sea Battle At Orkusk\" or the synthy, postjazz apocalypse of \"Ambushed By Time Quagga\". \"Lady Dragons\" is a few minutes of radio static and tiny rock swirls before it blows up into a skinrattling workout. When Gibson gets entropic, his swampy drum loops are undeniable.  There aren't enough of these, though, and at 44 minutes Hidden City of Taurmond is too long. Eventually, what started out as frenetic feels listless. That said, pay attention to closer \"Mimi Vivian Sunrise (Live)\". In a club or practice space setting, the mix is stunning, focusing on all of Wizardzz's best elements: the vibe becomes acidhouse/psychedelic/shoegaze fuzz, the synths approximate distorted guitars, the drums overwhelm, and the sugary sunbursts are toppled with grime. You can see masked Gibson and Porter play somewhere on the Barkley DVD. In that footage, a dude with stylish hair attempts to bite one of the cymbals, as if it's candy, or better yet, some drug that'll take him straight to Taurmond. So while these 14 tracks offer a few stunners, Wizardzz seem to be an especially ecstatic live band. Wonder if they can fit a concert album into the busy schedule; either that, or Steve Albini needs to remix this fucker.  "}