{"label":" Blood and Fire","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8844/homepage_large.e7a7e445.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Congos & Friends","title":"Fisherman Style","text":"  Version albums not to be undertaken lightly. Versioning laying new vocals, effects, and/or instruments over a backing track is nearly as old as the Jamaican recording industry and an integral part of reggae and its attendant subgenres, so it makes sense that individual tracks have been made the subjects of entire records. Indeed, version albums have existed since the 1970s. They can be an illuminating listening experience when done properly. If not done well, however, a whole disc much less two, as on Fisherman Style can be a draining, monolithic listen. The first trick is selecting a great backing track, and it's difficult to think of a better one than \"Fisherman\", from the Congos' landmark 1977 album Heart of the Congos. Lee Perry's hypnotic production is sumptuous densely layered and full of detail, yet subtle and drifting enough to not overpower the vocals on top. With so many elements in its mix, it's possible to manipulate the existing track and make it sound quite different from song to song, and the producers of this record, Congos members Roydel Johnson and Cedric Myton, freely do away with or rebalance each element based on what best suits each new performance. The set is roughly divided in two, with most of the veteran contributors on Disc 1 and relative newcomers on Disc 2. (Longtime star Gregory Isaacs who actually contributed backing vocals to Heart of the Congos is oddly on the second disc.) The record kicks off with the original 1977 version, on which the threepart harmonies of Johnson, Myton, and Watty Burnett haunt Perry's vast echo chamber. This really isn't fair there was no way anyone else would come close to the original's sheer power. Big Youth, who has the unenviable task of following on its heels, at least provides a decent buffer with his toasting.  A list of huge names follows, including Max Romeo, Horace Andy, URoy, Dillinger, Sugar Minott, and Prince Jazzbo. Max Romeo does an especially great job of working out a completely original melody to fit the track, while Prince Jazzbo gets a boost from new vocals sung by Johnson and Myton. Saxophonist Dean Fraser provides an instrumental version, only to have Freddie McGregor swipe some of his horn arrangement to rejigger the backing track for his gritty \"Man Should Know\". Disc 2 also features an instrumental version in Mr. Raggamonica's melodicadrenched \"Fisherman Melody\".  The other younger artists on Disc 2 are naturally heavily influenced by dancehall. MacLaw's torrent of melodic toasting on \"Nuh Worry Your Mind\" works especially well, while Lutan Fyah, who will be huge if he plays his cards correctly, delivers the second disc's highlight on \"Whitewash Walls\", a dazzling display of vocal virtuosity that slips effortlessly from dense raps to drawnout melodic phrases. The set ends with the original dub version of the song, a fitting bookend that puts Perry's warped genius on full display.  As good as most of the tracks are, though, the underlying fact is that these songs share the same backing track and the album can't help suffering as a whole for that fact. Your enjoyment of it will likely be rooted in your approach. Personally, I can't imagine often wanting to hear the whole thing straight through. Instead, I prefer to listen to a track or two at a time. But even if it's not something you're going to play endtoend every time, this is a fitting tribute to a phenomenal song.  "}