{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8847/homepage_large.f4d7cb3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: The Big Mack Label","text":"  It's one of thousands of vacant lots that pockmark Detroit, but the former site of the McCoy Recording Company once housed a mindboggling array of businesses. It was a women's clothing store before Ed \"Big Mack\" McCoy used his father's backing and turned it into a recording studio that doubled as a performance and assembly space. In the time McCoy owned it, the building housed a succession of other incomegenerating companies, and at one point served as an ice cream truck distribution center. Before opening his offices, McCoy had already released a few tracks by local musicians. As a DJ at a suburban Detroit radio station, he was introduced to a singer named Edd Henry. For his first recording session, he went all out, renting the professional United Sound studio and putting together a gigantic band complete with a horn section. The resulting songs, \"Your Replacement Is Here\" and \"Crooked Woman\", sound fantastic the latter shifts from a great Memphis blues intro to a charged piece of tough Detroit protosoul with blazing horns but McCoy's business plan hadn't taken into account the distribution of a record, and it accordingly tanked. The next time he set up a recording session, it took place in a garage. The group in question was the Manhattens (sic), a doowop outfit that would also record for him as the Grand Prix's. Cut in 1962, their \"The Feeling Is Mutual\" is sublime, with a soaring lead vocal and a Latin rhythm considerably muddied by the lessthanideal recording arrangement. Good music was being made, but by the early to mid60s, Big Mack was left in the dust by Detroit soul labels Fortune and Revilot, while Motown was gearing up to take over the world. McCoy's operation limped along with no real distribution, no reliable stable of artists, and little to show for the effort apart from some great tunes no one was ever going to hear.  When he moved into his new facility, McCoy hit on a novel way to build a talent pool and make money doing it: He offered anyone the chance to record in his studio for $15. You could show up on a Monday, sing your song, and have your record by the end of the week. Lord knows what happened to most of these recordings or what some of them sounded like but the sides Numero Group have resurrected all deserve a proper airing. Easily the most notable is Bob & Fred's \"I'll Be on My Way\". McCoy rightly saw something in the song and had them rehearse it for weeks. The final recording comes complete with a gorgeous string arrangement, which is still no match for the simple, amazing twopart harmony that tops it. It's the definition of a lost classic.  Adding to the scattershot nature of this compilation are songs like the Perfomers' great postdoowop version of \"Mini Skirt\", featuring backing by a white Detroit garage band called the Sleepwalkers, whose guitarist Maury Dean served as the recording company's vice president until the 1968 riots. You also get a couple of gogo spyjazz cuts from L. Hollis & the Mackadoos that would make Henry Mancini blush, as well as two songs by Soul President, a Bay Area act whose single \"Got to Have It\" b/w \"Get It Right\" was reissued by Big Mack in the Detroit area despite being a failure in its original domicile. Listening to the killer beat, psychedelic guitar, and enthusiastic vocals, it's hard to fault McCoy for taking the risk. As the calendar ticked over into the 1970s, McCoy switched from male to female acts, bringing aboard a trio called Essence and two singers named Mae Young and Ms. Tyree \"Sugar\" Jones.  The songs McCoy recorded with them represent a fantastic last gasp for Big Mack. Essence do an incredible take on \"Fever\" (yes, that \"Fever\") spiked with clavinet and funky backbeat. The song is so radically altered that I had to listen carefully to the chorus to correlate the lyric to what I'm accustomed to hearing. On top of that, McCoy delivers an eyepopping Isaac Hayes monologue at the beginning. Jones stops about an inch short of outright pornography on the spooky, wahdrenched \"If You Feel It\", bumping up against the bongos and bubbling bassline like a dancer ready to go home with a stranger. Mae Young's songs blend garage rock and funk for a tough, barnstorming sound that shows McCoy may have been on to something if he'd been able to sustain it.  As it was, he couldn't, and it took 30 years for a dedicated reissue label to put the pieces back together and present the Big Mack story. The resulting disc is remarkably solid, and full of music that was otherwise entirely lost to the ages. As usual, the sound is incredible, and considering the sources, unbelievably full, with excellent separation and balanced levels. If you're into soul music and haven't discovered this series yet, do it now.  "}