{"label":" Too Pure","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8851/homepage_large.eae66355.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Young People","title":"All at Once","text":" There's a difference between \"sparse\" and \"flimsy.\" While negative space can be deployed to great effect, too much of it will take the oomph out of a promising record, leaving sounds and ideas unexplored. When I first saw Young People in concert, I was floored by how much noise they could make with such little sound. The band's three members poked, plucked, and bowed their instruments, each miniscule articulation given enough room to speak volumes. Katie Eastburn's voice showed a hint of cultivated calm a whiff of impenetrability that somehow made the whole thing that much more interesting. At their best, Young People understand that good negative space is dynamic negative space. The best songs on the band's previous fulllength War Prayers and this January's Five Sunsets in Four Days EP struck a fragile, tenuous balance between silence and cacophony. On All at Once, the group's first album as a twopiece, much of that tension is missing Young People still find their way to some incredible moments, but the paths that take them there are a good deal less inviting. Opener \"R and R\" is promising: A piano figure plays as Eastburn repeats gravely, \"I do not want these flowers to/ But the flowers want to bloom.\" Booming, regular percussion and a distant squeaking sound fill out the mix as the song progresses, subtly heightening its sense of claustrophobia. \"Forget\" boasts one of the album's strongest melodies, but never really develops it. In many ways, the transparency that can make Young People's music so moving stifles All at Once; every little addition and subtraction seems too evident, too obvious, and too detached from the ebbs and flows of the songs themselves. The second half of the album is more rewarding. \"Reapers\" sounds like it was recorded inside a storm cloud, all brooding ambiance and ominous beauty. The song's coda, in which muffled cymbal crashed cradle Eastburn's \"We'll never know/ How it goes,\" is the most affecting and memorable moment on All at Once. \"F\" is upbeat and deeply enchanting, save for a dissonant, rumbling interlude toward its end. Young People have always excelled at these grand textural changes, and while All at Once doesn't contain many of them, the few that remain are stunning. It's easy to criticize a twopiece band for being overly minimal, but Young People are one of the few that could have pulled off a record like this. I keep revisiting the album in the hopes that there's more to it than first meets the ear, but Young People have never been the kind of band to keep things hidden. All at Once is exactly what it seems, and at times it feels pretty flimsy. "}