{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8853/homepage_large.b5981723.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Coachwhips","title":"Double Death","text":" For those who missed the Coachwhips the first time around, here's a strident howl from beyond the grave. Double Death, the San Francisco band's posthumous double release of odds and sods, sounds like the scorched remains of a searing, gungho noisepunk career in this case, that's a compliment. Difficult as it is to imagine, these rarities actually further degenerate the band's already vestigial albeit effective take on punk rock. Some studio scraps, combined with eclectic covers ranging from the Kinks to the Velvet Underground to Adam and the Ants, nicely eulogize a career that burned bright, short, and most importantly, asskickingly. A halfdozen tracks of blues napalm kick off the album, which otherwise consists of blunter junkyard debris. From \"Mr. Hyde\"'s spiky organ alarum to John Dwyer's whiney interrogation on \"ATM\", the tenuous garagerock revival comparisons ring true. Yet, unlike the White Stripes or the Hives, the Coachwhips deploy hissy, braindead stomps out of necessity, not aesthetic angling; they can't sound any cleaner or better. Take \"The Witch\", a Sonics cover, for example. Gratuitously sped up, the mix inundated with cymbal crashes, the Coachwhips render the original wholesome and Ed Sullivanready by comparison. Even in the album's homogenous middle third a shortlived riff or occasional Dwyer oneliner salvages momentum. \"Ringing the Chowbell\" monstrously mashes garish 1960s camp rock with Dwyer's nihilist, postpunked blues croon, here sounding more mischievous than malefic. Feedbackballad \"Death Machine\" finds the band farthest from their pissandvinegar MO, with a disintegrated Lou Reed lullaby slowed seemingly for the sole purpose of hearing overdriven guitars drowning the singsong melody in metallic squall.  Funny thing is, Double Death like any Coachwhips album remains entertaining and actionpacked throughout, despite each song's overthetop, shoot'emup formula. If nothing else in this world, I know two things without a doubt: Schwarzenegger will defeat an army of robotsoldiers before a final showdown with their creator, and the Coachwhips will initiate a harmless blues shuffle before immediately pulverizing it to exhilarating smithereens.  "}