{"label":" Warner Bros. / Asylum","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8860/homepage_large.e9751c7d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Cam'ron","title":"Killa Season","text":"  In the film Killa Season, Cam'ron plays a thinly veiled avatar named Flea. In fact, the veil is so thin that, toward the end of the movie, characters casually refer to him as Cam, to which he responds without hesitation. Clearly, Flea is Cam's idealized version of himself the ultimate hustler, with the gusto to spit on a small child's forehead and shoot a man in the chest while riding a bike. Yet in the film and on this accompanying soundtrack the rapper's unswerving hardscrabble guise is becoming wearisome. With his first three albums largely devoted to charmingly skewed softbatch rap & b, the Harlem magnate hardened up by way of relentless mixtape releases, resulting in the soulinfused 2004 masterpiece, Purple Haze. With that album, Cam cannily balanced twisted takes on rote gun'n'drugrunning hiphop tropes with sweet soul samples that gave his countless bon mots levity and bounce. On Killa Season, such levity is sorely missed. Since Purple Haze, the whole Dipset machine seems to have fallen into a holding pattern. Aside from Juelz Santana, who actually showed some promising progression on two solo mixtapes and an impressive sophomore album last year, Cam and his cronies continue to release a relentless stream of street CDs with diminishing returns. Seemingly, the entire crew is trying to top Haze's signature banger's banger, \"Get 'Em Girls\", which combines operatic vocals with arch strings and backbroke bass to emit a crippling, avantgarde thump. Thing is, \"Get 'Em Girls\" can't be topped. Or duplicated. Yet, a large portion of Killa Season is committed to that aim with bumptious tracks like \"Girls, Cash, Cars\", \"War\", and the shamelesslydubbed \"Get 'Em Daddy\" all puffing lots of hotair bluster rather than sounding audacious. The rapper's diminutive Flea moniker also hints at a paranoid inferiority complex that seeps into the record. Instead of showcasing his trademark neverrushed swagger, Killa Season sometimes finds Cam aggravated, yelling flustered barbs over chintzy Casio trumpets and toobusy hihats. Exhibit A is \"You Gotta Love It\", his infamous JayZ dis. Out of its original context, the song can now be judged as something other than a crass stunt, and Cam nails some stinging blows while battling the harsh beat (which earns a couple of pity points for sampling, of all things, the score from Basic Instinct). Still, no matter how amped Cam gets over one of Mr. Carter's fashion faux pas, it's always going to look pathetic when an opponent wins a fight by not responding.  When the stiff beats ease up and Cam (slightly) deflates his chest, Killa Season excels. The album's finest moment and one of the most intriguing tracks in Cam's catalogue thus far is \"I.B.S.\", an autobiographical tale chronicling the emcee's bout with the pesky, selfexplanatory disease called Irritable Bowl Syndrome. Over an uncharacteristically subdued, twinkling beat from Dipset faves Heatmakerz, Cam starts off with the bold pronouncement, \"This is a true story.\" Whether or not that makes the album's other tales less than genuine is unclear truth is a highly relative term in Purple City. But he follows up the sincere claim with brilliantly candid couplets, making light of his painful condition. \"I can't enjoy a movie dinner,\" he admits, \"My son growin' up, I'm lookin' like the movie Thinner.\" Whatever \"truth\" Cam's speaking of here, it's probably something he should rely on more often.  But no matter how oddly hilarious and touching \"I.B.S.\" can be, it's likely to go down as a barefaced anomaly. A more realistic exit strategy for the current banginghead Dipset conundrum is represented by \"Do Ya Thing (Remix)\", on which Cam shows off a hushed delivery, gliding with easy reticence over a jazzy, Earth, Wind & Firesampling Chad Hamilton beat that recalls vintage Pete Rock. Although the rhymes are basically beenthere Camlibs, in such smooth surroundings even the mindnumbing hook \"More killin' killin'/ More killin' killin' for Killa Killa\" sounds fresh.  On the limited edition version of Killa Season, there's a bonus DVD that includes portions of a press conference Cam held shortly after his JayZ dis first aired. The spectacle is ridiculously selfserious, showing that the rapper may be drinking too much of his own Sizzurp liqueur. When asked deadon if the harsh dig at the best semiretired rapper alive was a blatant publicity stunt, Cam responds, \"I don't need a publicity stunt I'm me.\" If this underwhelming offering is any indication, such blind selfreference has considerably slowed down Cam'ron's onceunstoppable Dipset Movement.  "}