{"label":" Strange Attractors Audio House","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8862/homepage_large.dd04299c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Paik","title":"Monster of the Absolute","text":" The powerhouse Detroitbased trio Paik emerged out of Michigan's fertile spacerock movement of the late 1990s, with their stormy, highdensity drones providing a crucial negativeplate balance to the more celestial ambient tremors of acts like Windy and Carl. Over the course of four subsequent fulllength albums, Paik have generated a surprisingly graceful and nuanced river of sludge, patiently carving its own steepsided black canyon through the group's desolate Rust Belt precincts. And the curious, seductive pull of Paik's artificial gravity has never been more acute than it is on their fifth album Monster of the Absolute. Forcefully compacting their murky instrumental riffs into a thickened, implosive mass, the three members of Paik are nevertheless able to supply the centrifugal force necessary to keep their thunderous creations aloft and spinning in continuous diabolical orbit. Compared to the decayed sprawl of 2004's Satin Black, the seventrack Monster of the Absolute is a model of precision. Though undeniably heavy, Paik draws only tangentially from traditional metal. Their gradual, surging currents can dovetail nicely with some of the more shoegazerly moments of Boris or Jesu, but more often the trio advances with a uniquely limber, propulsive symmetry. Here it falls on the rhythm section of drummer Ryan Pritts and bassist Ali Clegg to do the brunt of the loadbearing structural work, freeing guitarist Rob Smith to add insoluble layers of droning feedback and finetoothed psychedelic detail. It's Clegg who also provides the album with much of its essential melodic and dramatic momentum, as on the turbulent \"Phantoms\", a track whose churning, bottomheavy distortion recalls the postgrunge pummel of such longgone AmRep trios as Hammerhead or Vertigo. Likewise, the introspective \"Contessa\" rides Clegg's stalwart bass through a boundless sea of massed overtones, with Smith's fractal guitar drones expanding everoutward into the unlit marsh. More conventional are \"October\" or the spiraling \"Snakeface\", which trace the elegant trajectories of Mogwai or Explosions in the Sky. Guided by Pritt's restless, inventive drumming, the music never succumbs to reductive postrock crescendoes, but rather voicing each of their hypnotic repetitions around a central organic, breathlike pulse. The longest piece on Monster of the Absolute is its nineminute title track, a prolonged narcotic drip of cascading guitar, strummed bass, and fluttering percussion that sounds as though it would need to be broadcast through skyscrapersized amplifiers to achieve its full levitational effect. Bracketing the album are a pair of brief, percussionless drones (\"Intro\" and \"Outro\") that seem intended to speed the listener's transition into Paik's immersive soundscapes. While all of its pieces share a certain thudding abstraction, Monster of the Absolute features a marked lack of genuine toothgritting dissonance. There seems instead to be unexpected, enveloping warmth that emanates from the album's shadows, inviting the listener to spend a perhaps unhealthy length of time beneath Paik's dark, choppy waters. "}