{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8864/homepage_large.5d1de23a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory Byrom","artist":"Blight","title":"Detroit: The Dream Is Dead -- the Collected Works of a Midwest Hardcore Noise Band 1982","text":"  The cover of Detroit: The Dream Is Dead, Touch and Go's complete collection of Blight's music, features a blackandwhite photo of a brokendown and boardedup building. It's a fitting image, as Blight attempted to embody the pervasive sense of desolation in their community in Lansing, Mich., in the early 1980s. Created amid rampant unemployment and a stagnant economy, the band's wall of noise wasn't so much a reaction to the surrounding world as it was a representation of it. Fittingly, Blight only lasted four months, recording a few tracks, playing a small handful of chaotic shows, and then burning out before they could even burn bright. There are actually only nine different songs here. The socalled \"Touch and Go Sessions\" are the studio recordings; two of these songs are also included in fourtrack demo form, and then there's a poorly recorded ninesong live set. The music is metallic and industrial in the most literal sense, like the sound of a sheet metal plant set to a sloppy drumbeat. The clanging bass that starts the disc is usually the only instrument holding down anything close to a melody, while the guitar is more akin to a table saw squealing and wailing in the background. Front man Tesco Vee, who would later go on to front the Meatmen, shows none of his trademark toilet humor here, instead violently railing against society, the government, even himself. Songs like \"Prophet of Doom\", \"Armageddon\", and \"Be Stupid\" give you the general sense of what the band has to say. The music isn't depressing; it's depressed. Here we have the genesis of what could have gone on to be a unique and powerful band. The combination of midtempo hardcore and mechanical noise at times recalls Flipper, Wire, Nomeansno, and even some of the Dead Kennedys' more abstract material. But where all of those bands' voices were developed and focused over time, Blight never got that far. Detroit: The Dream Is Dead is like the record diehard fans seek out because it contains the first nuggets of a distinctive sound. Only in this case, the sound was never actually heard. Blight never developed and never fully realized their vision. And while some would argue that their primitive, chaotic din specifically was the vision that any attempts of taking it further would've only watered down the toxic ooze it's hard not to wonder what they could have created in another year or two. As a bit of pop sociology exploring the mindset of workingclass punks in the Midwest of the early 80s, Detroit: The Dream Is Dead is certainly interesting. But as an essential collection of a couldhavebeenlegendary band, it feels a little hollow.  "}