{"label":" Chicks on Speed","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8867/homepage_large.da9f8e7f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"DAT Politics","title":"Wow Twist","text":"  On its first three records this French laptop gang used pop as a marker while actually indulging only rarely. Pop was something DAT Politics' 8bit electro orbited around, poked at, made fun of, and kept under their pillows, but it was never embraced as an identity. They inched at melody like a high school kid testing a ledge, seeing how close they could get without actually going over. And whenever they almost fell such as \"Pie\" on 2002's Plugs Plus they cut the pleasure with just enough annoying lofi noise to keep people who don't wish they lived inside a Nintendo game at arm's length. No longer. Here on their sixth fulllength, DAT Politics have finally decided that writing and singing catchy tunes won't actually lead to a fatal case of the cooties. The palette hasn't changed appreciably; though they presumably use latemodel computers, the noises aren't much different from, say, your local Fan Club Orchestra's Gameboy jamz. So the sound of the thing is still going to rub many (most?) people the wrong way. But in terms of songwriting, they play it straight, and ultimately demonstrate a knack for memorable tunes. One day, some joker with an acoustic guitar will cover one of these tracks. We'll ask why he or she is singing something called \"V.I.D.E.O. Tape\" and shouting out the letters like a Bay City Roller, but we won't question the integrity of the song. In pop music, certain gestures are common and essential, like salt in cooking, and DAT Politics have learned to love the heavy hand. The \"oooeeeoooooo\" backing vocals bumping against the chorus of \"Turn My Brain Off\" are the oldest and easiest trick in the book, and they're wonderful. Gaetan Collet offers a pitiful and charming old school rap on \"What's DAT\"; the pumping threechord progression in \"Gravity\" is a modified version of the one Depeche Mode used in \"Just Can't Get Enough\"; there's even a ballad for god's sake, \"Fake Friend\", with a voice processed to sound on the verge of breaking even while the chipmunks cooing in the background are all smiles.  All of which is all good news for the more casual DAT Politics fan, those without the patience to pick through the earlier records. On the other hand, the band will probably lose a few people with this record's likeability. This scene, involving Chicks on Speed, the Blechtum axis, and select members of Tigerbeat6, has developed a cult drawn to a boundarytesting aesthetic. Music that is ugly and out of balance can still effectively communicate; depending on what you're trying to get across, something that goes down like two aspirin without water might be just the thing. But DAT Politics have left such concerns behind, at least for the time being, to bop around and shout and let the playful sense of fun take over completely.  "}