{"label":" Susan Lawly","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8873/homepage_large.47780228.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Whitehouse","title":"Asceticists 2006","text":"  If you have even the faintest misgivings about the noise scene or power electronics, Whitehouse may be your worst nightmare. Even the fiercest acolytes will acknowledge that the group has hardly modified its sound over the last two decades. They prolifically release reams of inaccessible music. They lace their impenetrable lyrics with sadistic descriptions of violence, pedophilia, and misogyny. Their productions fail to suggest any degree of talent or sentience. The album titles are like bad artjournal puns. And the records are, quite literally, nothing but ambulance sirens, exploding trucks, and the howls of mutilated cats. They lack the conceptual brilliance of Merzbow, the nuance of Kevin Drumm, and the mysterious modernism of Maurizio Bianchi. Whitehouse are purified clamor, undiminished by any interest in diversity or progress. It's incredible to think this form of British industrialism emerged from the remnants of bowtiespinning academics like David Tudor and Alvin Lucier. Only years later, their experiments would be fused with Whitehouse's serialkiller paraphernalia and masochistic videos. How times change. I'm under the impression that Asceticists 2006 is Whitehouse's finest album to date, but this is not because it displays any particular strengths. It's a peculiar feature of the group's project that each new album must inherently be superior to the last. This is because a) All their albums are basically the same, and b) Uniformity is precisely the point. Each new recording is merely one more opportunity to consider what the object of their satire is, if it's even satire in the first place. At any rate, Asceticists will revitalize one's hope in the future of industrial noise. By the first track, Whitehouse have shown all their cards: Banshees race around in gravel, whistles and clipping mics fall off cliffs, and Philip Best presents some rather unpersuasive defenses of property damage and murder. Since \"Dans\" is basically undiluted aggression, devoid of any melodic or rhythmic notion, it can suggest anything whatsoever: race riots, bouncing artillery shells, tidal waves, sonic booms, hailing anvils, soccer matches, sweet sixteens. In a strange irony, the numbest songs can also become the most evocative. While the group's sound is dramatically uncommercial, anyone can appreciate its apocalyptic qualities. As with any Whitehouse recording, I've no idea whether it's intended to be comedic or sincere, although it certainly doesn't matter. After 18 albums, those sorts of inquiries are out of the question. Elephants tapdance, chainsaws rev, puppies cower. Brief patches of rhythmic density indicate heartbeats or rotor blades. The lyrics, delivered with grating static and cracked equipment, focus on a wide variety of relevant topics, including pornography, noxious gases, decimated orphans, violent contagions and the horrors of David Bowie. Not that any of it is really intelligible. Toward the end of the album (\"Ruthless Babysitting\", \"Dumping the Fucking Rubbish\") there are some feeble attempts to employ rhythmic sequences, but this is surely more of an accident than an intentional development. No point in cataloguing the rest of the album in any detail. If you know Whitehouse, you know what to expect. If you don't, well, maybe you should just keep your distance.  "}