{"label":" Family","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/13575/homepage_large.e6907635.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Jarvis Cocker & Steve Mackey","title":"The Trip","text":" Anyone who's made a mixtape can tell you that its construction is a calculated art. The folks at Family Recordings must understand this, since they use the term \"curator\" for those who create playlists for their mix series The Trip, which has previously featured entries from Tom Middleton, Saint Etienne, and Snow Patrol. Jarvis Cocker and Steve Mackey of Pulp compiled the latest edition and their set is bookended by instrumentals that act like introductory and concluding movements in a symphony; songs are juxtaposed for stylistic continuity, with a few abrupt shifts when things get too samey. There's no sense that either are cowed by current trends or de facto influences. After all, David Essex's awful \"Rock On\" is probably the bestknown track of the bunch. This selection of songs is so hermetically sealed by the curators' peculiar tastes that it actually works, even as it meanders over two hourlong discs. It's reasonable to expect this compilation to reveal something essential about Cocker and Mackey's songwriting sensibilities, but the results are never so simple or algebraic; these 35 songs do not add up to Pulp. That makes sense considering how central contradiction and irony were to the band's identity. For every glittery synth raveup, Pulp had an unadorned pop song draped over a simple chord progression. And tension was always at the heart of Cocker's lyrics. One moment, he's extolling the virtues of nonstop partying; the next, he's nursing his hangover with a profound sense of emptiness.  The first disc is dominated by folky and countrified ballads, songs filled with heartbreak and a tenderhearted acquiescence to how much people need each other. Bob Lind's \"Cool Summer\" and Bonnie Dobson's \"Winter's Going\" are nice thematic links, as lovers slip away with the changing seasons. The most compelling of these traditional songs is Dory Previn's \"The Lady With the Braid\", which smacks of Cocker's taste for awkward and humane detail. As Previn sings to a potential lover, inviting him to \"stay until sunrise,\" she slips in minutiae simultaneously embarrassing and sweet. He can hang his \"denim jacket near the poster by Picasso\" or, if he gets chilly, he can use \"this coverlet my cousin handcrocheted\". With such a setup, by the time she admits \"the night cuts through me like a knife\" the cliché is easily forgiven.  The mix is also marked by a number of novel covers, such as the Polecats' rockabilly take on Bowie's \"John, I'm Only Dancing\" and Bobbie Bare's C & W interpretation of Dylan's \"Don't Think Twice, It's All Right\". Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark reimagines the Velvets' \"Waiting for the Man\" as a robotic dance song with a fat bass groove and icy synth lines. But the most mindblowing cover is Dion's take on \"Purple Haze\". Forgoing the guitar freakout that made the original, this version is all plucked acoustic, breezy flute, and scat singing. If it weren't for the lyrics which apparently Dion felt were the most crucial aspect of Hendrix's version this would be entirely unrecognizable. And no, Dion, we will not excuse you while you kiss the sky.  Cocker and Mackey's selections are satisfying and offer some degree of insight into the kinds of music that informed their work in Pulp. But for every obscure discovery there's a track that begs to be skipped (Neil Sedaka, guys?). Still, this is, by definition, a mixed bag, and Cocker and Mackey deserve credit for wringing this much coherence out of so many disparate songs. "}