{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8892/homepage_large.21c1fdb2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Bird Show","title":"Lightning Ghost","text":"  I suspect that Bird Show Town & Country coconspirator Ben Vida's oneman army of lofi buzzanddrone experiments is probably best experienced live. In that setting, other musicians often join Vida, and the songs grow and evolve in real time, lurching with an improvisational air that breathes life into the music. Lightning Ghost, the second Bird Show disc, lacks any sign of that natural excitement, despite the fact that it was largely written on stage over the past year. While there are moments that are quiet and pretty, with layered chantlike vocals working to induce a trance, at other times it's downright irritating, with splashes of computerized noise, static, and squealing feedback. The disc rides the line between minimalist postrock and noise and, as a result, doesn't really succeed at either.Lightning Ghost starts strong with \"Field on Water\", which features layers of various instruments bells, handclaps, and guitar among them that writhe through a cyclical rhythm behind Vida's humming vocals. The track is subtle and understated, building ambience through delicate instrumentation. But that feeling doesn't last. Elsewhere, \"Pilz\" lacks rhythm, instead utilizing a seemingly random combination of chimes, single drum hits, and guitar squawks. Vida's voice here is tuneless, moving up and down in unharmonized layers. \"Seeds\" is even noisier, but it at least sees a return to the hypnotic repetition of the first track. When Vida locks into a groove, it can be mesmerizing. But too often he breaks his own spell. You've heard records like this before a lot of potential nestled in a few songs, but far too many missteps. True solo projects, those created and executed by only one person, can sometimes contain such a singular vision that it becomes hard to understand what the artist was thinking. That might be Lightning Ghost's biggest problem. It's a frustrating Dr. Jekyll way too eager to turn into Mr. Hyde. And unfortunately, the good here isn't unique or interesting enough to outweigh the bad.  "}