{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8893/homepage_large.3e3081d0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Go! Team","title":"Audio Assault Course","text":"  If you'd taken a poll of the press section at last year's Pitchforkcurated festival, the winner of the Most Surprising Performance Award would have gone to the Go! Team for their hyperactive Saturday afternoon set. Expectations weren't astronomical going in, given that the newly created band had few shows under its belt, and the record was the sort of basement studio project that often fails to translate to a large scale. But when the Go! Team live act turned out to be less Ian Parton triggering samples and more Gorillaz made flesh, it was easy to see the journos up front letting their scowls dissolve into smiles so wide the top twothirds of their heads were in danger of falling off. Though Thunder, Lightning, Strike was a Crock Pot of musical artifacts and vinylcrackle production, the Go! Team live get by on charisma and enthusiasm, leaning hard on the frontwoman skills of MC Ninja, and performing with instrumentswapping, guitarwaving zeal. Certainly, it also doesn't hurt that much of Parton's source material was already drawn from the past five decades of dance music, allowing the band to tap into a blockparty spirit. However, there's no guarantee a successful live show will translate well to magnetic tape, a phenomenon perfectly encapsulated by Audio Assault Course. Subtitled The College Radio Sessions, and available as a sampler at select indie retailers, the EP selects six live cuts (plus Kevin Shields' dreadful \"Huddle Flash\" remix) to demonstrate the band's en vivo sound. Sadly, rather than emphasize the Go! Team's onstage chops, the minialbum ends up exposing their onstage compromises.  Part of the blame lies with the antiseptic environment of the radio session, where every instrument is mixed just a bit too well and there's no audience to fuel an energy feedback mechanism. Under this harsh microscope, the gluestick streaks start to show on the Go! Team's genre collages, revealing how easy it is to upset their aesthetic's delicate balance. While \"Junior Kickstart\" benefits slightly from an increased guitar presence, transforming the song into a lost Sonic Youth with Tower of Power collaboration, \"Ladyflash\" and \"Bottle Rocket\" lose their rich girlgroup history montage without the thick drums and carefully woven samples.  Most glaringly exposed are Ninja's pepsquad replacement parts, which tread embarrassing Rap 101 territory, rendering \"Huddle Formation\" and \"We Just Won't Be Defeated\" newly winceworthy. Where on record the cheerleader chants were merely another grainy, rhythmic element floating in and out of the Go! Team's hodgepodge, sharpening the focus onto a lead vocalist comes off as shrill and distracting. Similar equilibrium disruptions occur elsewhere, whether due to studio soundboard mishaps or poor arrangement, with the grating harmonica of \"Bottle Rocket\" and the piercing pizzicato vibes of \"The Ice Storm\" torpedoing the songs' textures.  So, I'm put in the curious position of vouching for a band's live show while lambasting their live sessions album fansonly throwaway that it may be. But Parton & co. shouldn't feel bad; the truth being that very few bands' stage talent is worthy of being documented on tape particularly one as closely associated with intricate studioingredient mixtures as the Go! Team. While in person the group can lean on fancy video art and an audience that usually can't hear the missing or distorted details, Audio Assault Course puts those flaws on unnecessary display, a doggiebag meal that falls far short of the original experience.  "}