{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8898/homepage_large.705bc042.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Johnny Cash","title":"Personal File","text":"  Posthumous releases prompt a kneejerk cynicism from many listeners. It's been only three years since Johnny Cash's death, and already we've seen a mythologizing Hollywood biopic, two versions of a sprawling fourdisc box set, and a bestselling singledisc greatesthits that tried in vain to squeeze a halfcentury career into 22 tracks. The Tupac'ing of the Man in Black stretches into the near future, with a fifth installment of his diminishingreturns American Recordings collaboration with Rick Rubin due in July. But for now, there's another posthumous chapter: the vault clearing.Personal File, the first new material released since Cash's death, is two discs' worth of unreleased tracks, mostly acoustic, dating as far back as the early 1970s. The story, which sounds like a legend so is probably true, is that Cash recorded them in his home studio and locked them in his vault. They were recorded ostensibly for his own pleasure or at least for family posterity, not necessarily for public consumption. They sound like he's talking not to himself, but to an audience. All in all, the release feels like a scrapbook of sorts: half entertainment, half autobiography in song. It's more than enough to dispel the aforementioned cynicism, which admittedly has more to do with marketing than music. Cash's commanding voice is in its prime, the setting is spare and intimate, and his song choice draws from hymns and hits to reveal a deep and complex inner life of course, it's great. Occasionally it does seem a little heavyhanded, but that might have more to do with the sequencing than the songs. Plus, Cash is a fine storyteller, introducing these tracks with reminiscences that reveal their roles in his life. He introduces \"Drink to Me With Thine Eyes\" with a story about singing it for a high school graduation ceremony: \"I guess this was when I was looking for myself. But I never forget that because it's one of my first public singing occasions. And I've sung this song mainly to myself ever since I was 17 years old because of those memories.\"  His conversational, unpolished performances keep the mood loose and often add levity to the proceedings. On the Louvin Brothers' \"When I Stop Dreaming\" he can't quite sustain the notes that they held so effortlessly, but the attempt is endearing. Midway through the hymn \"Have Thine Own Way Lord\", his voice booming low and grave, Cash stumbles over the tune and has to start again. Poking a bit of fun at himself how often has he sung this particular song? he jokes, \"Okay. 'Have Thine Own Way', take five.\"  Listening to Personal File feels like reading an artist's journal or an author's correspondence. These 49 songs reveal depths about Cash, although at times they seem almost too personal, as if they actually were never intended for a public audience. The first disc contains secular material: love songs and tour songs and covers and country laments. The second disc is entirely spiritual, including two backtoback songs about Mary Magdalene \"If Jesus Ever Loved a Woman\" could be a Da Vinci Code tiein. Given the solitary nature of the recording, this second disc sounds like a form of prayer and praise, as if the Man in Black is talking directly to the Man Upstairs. For Cash singing these songs became a form of worship, which makes this second disc undeniably moving.  Still, the decision to separate the secular and the spiritual on Personal File seems a little disingenuous and misrepresentative. There's already been a collection of discs that categorized Cash's songs under the headings Love, God, Murder, and the vague addendum Life. That set worked because the distinctions were the point of the compilation, revealing the breadth of Cash's interests and output. On Personal File, this same distinction seems a little suspect: Anyone with a passing knowledge of Cash's career should surely realize that he did not keep his spiritual side separate from his work. His hardwon Christian faith played a crucial role in all of his songs, lending them a moral gravity. Conversely, his secular concerns lend his songs of praise a powerful conflicted quality, making them sound like the humble prayers of a repentant sinner. On Personal File, this separation restricts these songs and their meanings and melodies: Why wouldn't \"Have a Drink of Water\", about Jesus in Samaria, fit right alongside Cash's take on John Prine's \"Paradise\"? Or \"The Engineer's Dying Child\" alongside \"My Children Walk in Truth\"? What would this tell us about such a complex American figure? I recommend you shuffle the tracklist and find out for yourself.  "}