{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8902/homepage_large.b7b30c8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Deerhoof","title":"Untitled EP","text":"  My coworkers often feel the need to tune out the noise pollution leaking from my desk area. For routine music, their impromptu containment procedures work pretty well: They either ignore the sound or erect semifunctional barriers to physically block it out. Certain bands, however, have proven themselves to be not so easily silenced particularly ones with eccentric or piercing vocals, fickle and random arrangements, or rhythms that don't fit into gentle 4/4 time signatures. So obviously, queuing Deerhoof is one of the top causes of this arrangement's failure, inspiring the dreaded onetwo question punch of \"what in the hell are you listening to?\" and \"can you please turn that down?\" Even last year's The Runners Four, arguably the group's most accessible and coherent album, couldn't prevent this interrogation, with its sudden bursts of videogame hardcore, Satomi Matsuzaki's schoolkid yelps, and the occasional ditty about pirates or private investigators. Attempts to explain its appeal were met with slow backingaway and a renewed soundproofing effort. I could never quite verbalize that one of the reasons The Runners Four clicked with me was its relative decline in eccentricity, as compared to the rest of the Deerhoof catalogue; with its epic peaks, threesided concept, and \"Pinball Wizard\" teases, the album was decidedly classic rock in intention. Now this new covers and live EP, made available as a free download in honor of departing member Chris Cohen, legitimizes that interpretation, choosing material from 1960s pop/rock groups rather than avantprog artists. Here's something safe for work, I figured, because really, how weird can a Beatles or a Herman's Hermits cover get?  OK, pretty weird. A radio session version of Deerhoof's \"The Continuing Story of Bungalow Bill\" has been floating about for a while, but the studio recording included here wouldn't feel out of place on a Freakiest Beatles Covers Ever comp: Satomi pitches her campfire vocals extremely high and multitracks them all over the headphones, allowing Greg Saunier to have a myoclonic seizure all over his drums for the duration. It's the perfect encapsulation of the Deerhoof aesthetic, lying somewhere between kid's song and horror movie, the Willy Wonka boat ride sequence of Beatles remakes.  Unfortunately, the other covers don't take nearly as many liberties, sounding more like endofrehearsal fuckarounds than transcendent reimaginings. Obligatory Woodstock footage accompaniment \"Goin' Up the Country\" is weird only for how straight it's performed, down to the notefornote recreation of the porchhippie lead guitar part. Herman's Hermits' \"There's a Kind of Hush\" is a bit of an afterthought, a minimalist coda stripped down to Satomi's sweet vocals and oneinstrumentatatime backing. Similarly subdued, if more effective, is their take on My Bloody Valentine's \"Lose My Breath\", which replaces Kevin Shields' guitarchestra with cavernous empty space before straightforwardly building to a satisfying crest.  Productive silence is also the highlight of the EP's live cuts, tracks from Milk Man and The Runners Four that show off the band's ability to wildly careen between machinelike onstage tightness and a willingness to let their material evolve. \"Wrong Time Capsule\" and \"Scream Team\" especially stand out, displaying the band's mastery of the old loud/soft dynamic trick while Satomi juggles verses out of order and thrums an absurd bass tone. It's proof that Deerhoof are at their best when they're at their most cumbersome, immune to even the traditional weirdnessnullifying maneuvers of covers or live recordings; try as they might, they're one group that'll never be safe and subtle for the workplace.  "}