{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8913/homepage_large.447320c7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Jamie Lidell","title":"Multiply Additions","text":"  It's been a year since recovering IDM nerd Jamie Lidell turned his iBook and Ableton rig in for a fedora and microphone, and judging from the success he's had since, the move has served him well. On last year's Multiply, the talented Lidell evoked Motown's classic chord changes and rich melodies while simultaneously running them through the digital wringer, in turn reinventing himself as a whiteboy soul singer for the Shoreditch set. With that record serving as his ideological template, Lidell even further conflated those two sides in his live show. While the gimmick didn't always work, it hammered home the notion that Lidell's trick was one of alchemy: A trenchcoatclad soul singer with throwback stage moves and a propensity for scatting vs. a small army of hiccuping samplers, synths, and laptops. And now, as if to further underline the point, there's this. A stopgap release comprised of remixes, alternate takes, live versions, and covers, by rights Multiply Additions shouldn't be any different from your stereotypical oddsandsods disaster. And yet, somewhat improbably, it's not only totally listenable, it's one of few albums of its kind which one might argue is better than its predecessor without getting laughed out of the room. A lot of that has to do with its source material. Where an artist like Feist or Death From Above generally has to rely on a remixer's ingenuity to sand away its edges into electronicfriendly form, Lidell's simpler, more aerodynamic tracks practically come remix readymade. More often than not, he only ever has to decide whether to skew more clearly to jazz as he does on sparsely arranged live versions of \"You Got Me Up\" and \"Game For Fools\" or commit more to electronic music, as with Freeform's sleek electro recut of \"When I Come Back Around\" and Luke Vibert's mirrorhouse funk remix of \"A Little Bit More\". Because most of these new versions veer decisively towards one of those two directions, the album's overall balances basically remain the same. So where most remix records feel like amorphous blobs that bear only occasional resemblance to their originals, Additions feels like the whole of Multiply in reconstituted form. In other words, its got all the same colors in the same amounts, they're just applied differently.  Conceptually, there's a bit of a missed opportunity here. With the album's first five songs perfectly mirroring Multiply's running order, you can't help but wonder if Lidell shouldn't have just tried to make a completely different version of the same record. Instead, in place of new takes on the soul ballad \"This Time\" and the jittery skitterfunk of \"Newme\", we get two versions each of \"Multiply\" (which appears in a minor key hotel piano bar configuration and as a chugging instrumental courtesy of Herbert) and \"Game For Fools\" (once live from Paris and later as a charming ukelelebacked cover by occasional Herbert foil Mara Carlyle). But even despite the slight repetition, nothing on Additions feels extraneous every bit as nimble and as listenable as its precursor, this is the rare companion record that doesn't feel like a total afterthought.  "}