{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8914/homepage_large.db32904c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Charalambides","title":"A Vintage Burden","text":"  In 2004, the Texan psychfolk group Charalambides released Joy Shapes, a haunted, captivating album that will likely come to be considered their masterpiece. Since then, the group's two primary members, Tom and Christina Carter, have moved to opposite ends of the country and largely gone their separate musical ways, though they've both remained as prolific as ever. Each has released solo works and participated in an impressive array of collaborations: Tom performing in various duos with musicians like Robert Horton, Sandy Ewen, and Marcia Bassett, while Christina released albums with Loren Connors and Andrew MacGregor aka Gown. Despite the artistic success of these and other projects, however, there is an elusive, transcendent communion the two can only fully achieve together with Charalambides, purified strains of which are manifest on the pair's meditative new album, A Vintage Burden. As is the case with their fellow Houston native Jandek, the contents of Charalambides' vast discography can appear from a distance to be more or less homogenous. But upon closer inspection one can easily discern several distinct periods in the group's musical history, each with its own unique charms. For Charalambides, the timeline can be most obviously delineated by group membership, as they've spent two separate extended periods as a trio first with second guitarist Jason Bill and more recently with covocalist/pedal steel player Heather Leigh Murray, who departed after the release of Joy Shapes.A Vintage Burden a striking aboutface from the mystical abstractions of Joy Shapes appears to be the beginning of yet another new chapter in the Charalambides' ongoing, spiritdriven narrative. Gone are that album's wordless, ecstatic vocals and elliptical structures, replaced instead by some of the duo's most direct and songoriented material since their 1992 debut Our Bed Is Green. The Charalambides' individualized sound has always been grounded in the dual vocabularies of traditional acoustic folkblues and highwire acid rock, and here the pair occasionally seem to be paying discreet homage to stylistic forbears like Neil Young or the Grateful Dead. Tom's exquisite soloing on the 17minute instrumental \"Black Bed Blues\", seems particularly Jerry Garcialike as it moves from arid Texas bottleneck blues to passages of intricate psychedelia that can resemble the timecollapsed \"Dark Star\" collages of John Oswald's Grayfolded project.  Lacing together a quiet pulse of Ebowed guitar and lapsteel beneath Christina's plainspoken vocal, the melodic \"Spring\" is quite possibly the simplest Charalambides song on record and arguably one of the most starkly beautiful. Over the years, Christina's voice has evolved into an instrument of extraordinary depth and nuance, and throughout the album her vocals are given a newfound authority in the mix. On this track her reflective, animating lyrics (\"Do not wait/ Go outside/ Sky is blue/ Full of stars\") fly against the naturally lonesome grain of her delivery, providing a delicate contrast to the wintry, downcast folk of the following \"Dormant Love\".  Given A Vintage Burden's relatively standard spaceblues construction, there's sure to be those Charalambides fans who will miss the levitational scope of the group's more freeform transmissions. But tracks like the slowbuilt \"Two Birds\" or the elegiac closer \"Hope Against Hope\" remain charged by the duo's singular brand of indefatigable spiritual exploration. With a sound that seems at once both spacious and intimate, Tom and Christina Carter here again showcase their seemingly innate ability to lock into a shared orbit across the darkening sky, their luminous drift scaled down to its essential, irreducible core.  "}