{"label":" !K7","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8917/homepage_large.8a9a7e88.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Matthew Herbert","title":"Scale","text":"  Matthew Herbert is a classic British eccentric in a dance scene that valorizes sleek and vacuous cool. In another time you could imagine him walking a crustacean on a leash in a purple velour smoking jacket. You could not, however, imagine him alongside Richie Hawtin and Ricardo Villalobos on a beach in Ibiza. Whether it's a minimal jock in Cologne or a superclub jock in Queens, Herbert's records don't make it into many DJ boxes. And he creates albums you can listen to all the way through in a genre built on singles he's been responsible for some of the warmest, most inviting and inventive \"dance\" music of all time. Herbert's has often built his work around three constants: musique concréte, politics, and the female voice. The influence of musique concréte building music from everyday sounds has been most audible when he's worn his avant hats, Radio Boy and Wishmountain, but has continued throughout his career. Live and on disc, he'll turn the sound of crumpled styrofoam or whirring blenders into slinky or stomping house grooves. The politics are relatively new. Early Herbert records were lush and luscious and lithe, but not exactly demigogical. Over the past few years, however, Herbert's anticonsumerist and antiimperialist views have crept into his lyrics and sonics that crumpled styrofoam suddenly found itself as part of a greater statement about the fast food nation. And then there's also his Personal Contract for the Composition of Music, which deals with another kind of politics the politics of sampling. Herbert believes it's pointless to sample a trumpet melody or a hihat when you can pick up horn or drumstick. Why not instead build rhythm and melody out of tapping pencils or scratched denim? Like the microhouse he had a hand in ushering into existence, Herbert tracks have a unique timbral and textural pallette crunchy, squishy, squelchy, crackly, snappy. No presets here. It can get exhausting on a theoretical level it's only so interesting that a drum kit was crafted out of sampled dinner conversation or the sound of copulating egrets, after all but you'll certainly never hear a Herbert tune built around the familiar sound of an 808.  The female voice is the part of the equation that gets the least press. But it's actually his greatest strength. Herbert's first superb work, 1998's Around the House, was elevated above deep housemeetsIDM by the jazzy burr of his partner and longtime collaborator, Dani Siciliano. His masterpiecetodate Ruby Blue, a 2005 collaboration with Róisín Murphy is so great because he's tackling songs, not grooves. (Though they certainly groove.) Herbert builds his beats around the singer, rather than salt and pepper them with a sampled voice. It transformed him from a leftfield dance artist into a pop producer with a sound artist's instincts.  All three constants are in evidence on Scale, another wobbly step down his idiosyncratic path of torch songs, highend sampledelia, and disco motion. The album draws more from disco than house, from glam than techno, and from blueeyed soul than triphop there's a bounce and a skip here that suggests rollerskating rather than chinstroking. Much of Scale has a sumptuous jazz feel, but unlike Herbert's slightly stodgy and overly retro big band album from 2002, the music remembers that big band jazz moved the hips. And then there are the strings.  Recorded live at Abbey Road Studios, the strings on Scale are the most sumptuous musical elements to ever appear on a Herbert record. Wags have already said they're more Lawrence Welk than Nelson Riddle. True, there is something corny about them, but the corniness works: Disco was full of records that equated opulence and upward mobility with the inhouse orchestras of 1940s Hollywood. In the race to link disco to house and techno and beyond, people forget that there was always a brassy, Broadway vibe to the best disco. After all, it was a short walk downtown from Guys and Dolls to Kid Creole and the Coconuts.  Lyrically, the political knives come out within the first few lines of the first song, \"Something Isn't Right\": \"I just don't know how to bring about your downfall/ Damn fool/ Go figure out/ How those Christian bones/ Can orchestrate/ Shock and awe.\" They're easy to overlook as they are throughout the record because the singing is so creamy, the vocal arrangements so rich. But once you hear them, like a Magic Eye painting, it's difficult to unhear references to \"holy wars\" and U.S. imperialism. They don't always sit quite right with the love songs and like his stringent sampling rules, it's easy to poke fun at Herbert's political earnestness. But as someone with a political conscience who makes music, what else can he do?  Vocally, Scale is a constant delight. Siciliano's voice, once lurking in the hallways of Herbert's house productions, is now center stage. Herbert takes the tricks he learned on Ruby Blue in layering and harmonizing voices and revels in them. Siciliano is one of the great house singers, belting with glee on \"Moving Like a Train\", only to then yearn postcoitally on \"We're in Love\", drawing out the title like the world's most relaxed orgasm. And dig the way she lasciviously opens \"Movie Star\" with \"you wanna, you wanna put it in my\" as Herbert playfully bleeps out exactly where you wanna put it. The man himself takes a creaky turn at the mic at the album's end, cracking like a lounge singer after one too many brandies. Scale lacks the unified feel of Ruby Blue, but makes up for it by overreaching itself. From the number of samples (more than 720) to the methods of recording (under water! in a hot air baloon! in a moving car!), Herbert has outdone himself when it comes to his usual conceptual threering circus. But, crucially, this time he's put all that theoretical effort into his most memorable songs. Sophisticated and whimsical, joyful and yet tinged with sadness, Scale is one of this year's great albums.  "}