{"label":" Get Physical","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8918/homepage_large.0cd7cf70.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"M.A.N.D.Y.","title":"Get Physical, Vol. II","text":"  The first Get Physical mix belonged to a very exclusive club: The dance label compilation that somehow stands in for an entire genre. In 2004, many electrohouse mixes and compilations vied for dominance, but somehow none were as consistent, or consistently exciting, as the 2nd Anniversary compilation for this hitherto littleknown label with a seemingly endless capacity for unforgettable hooks and irresistible grooves. Between then and now, the label's profile has risen considerably, winning over both mainstream dance gatekeepers (Pete Tong, Mixmag) and the more reserved crowd that pays Kompakt's bills, in a feat of sonic multiskilling worthy of a politician. So it's at first surprising to find that Volume II falls somewhat short of its predecessor's lofty heights, despite M.A.N.D.Y. returning to the decks to rework the first installment's magic. On reflection, though, it's clear that this sequel simply expresses the problems and pitfalls of Get Physical's enviable acrosstheboard dominance. Whereas the first volume felt like an unwavering mission statement for an aesthetic already fullyformed and perfectly realized, its sequel finds Get Physical throwing dozens of ideas at the wall or, rather, to the nightclub floor and seeing what sticks. In itself, this diversity is probably a good thing: looking at the varied array of releases now baring the Get Physical imprint, I'm tempted to suggest that devoting oneself exclusively to this label would still provide a good sense of the breadth of the German techno scene. Volume II certainly pays tribute to this aesthetic openness, mixing up vocal house, disco revivalism, grinding minimalism, pulsating Detroit techno, and trance anthemics with a stylistic restlessness to rival the most dilettantish dance DJ. Unfortunately, the mix lacks the sort of overarching sequencing logic such diversity requires, instead moving back and forth between the label's increasingly divergent stylistic impulses in a manner that at times feels utterly random. It's hard not to compare this to the organic ebb and flow M.A.N.D.Y. accomplished on their Body Language mix from last year, which covered a similar and similarly broad range of sounds. Perhaps most glaringly, the temptation to fit in as many tracks as possible leaves some inclusions seeming decidedly cursory. This isn't so much a problem for the more tracky, DJ toolsy selections, but the short shrift given to songs is frustrating Chelonis R Jones' gorgeous masochists' love song \"La Bateau Ivre\" is allowed barely a minute to win you over, and Fuckpony's eerily seductive \"Ride the Pony\", whose hypnotic groove begs to played out in full, makes a similarly fleeting appearance.  The tendency towards overrepresentation is understandable when there are so many fabulous tracks in the absentee list, and just look at what made the cut: Rising star Jona complements his panoramic, hardriffing epic \"Learning From the Mistakes\" with \"Yellowstone\", a simultaneously sweet and sour concoction with a bouncing dubby rhythm reminiscent of UK garage. Francisco's remix of M.A.N.D.Y.'s \"Jah\" is a swoonworthy Patrick Cowley tribute. Elektrochemie's \"Vexed\" sculpts a cloud of smackedout minimalism into a prowling beast. Luciano's remix of Lopazz's \"Migracion\" features a gorgeously percussive groove that darts about with zephyrlike nervousness. And then, of course, there's Booka Shade's \"Mandarine Girl\", whose multitracked trance chords remain as exciting on the hundredth listen as on the first.  Perhaps the problem here is merely a case of indigestion from this gluttony of riches. Certainly it makes for a crowded and slightly strained family picture, with brilliant moments stuck four rows deep and jostling to be noticed, and there are too many different faces for you to possibly love them all. But this decadence is also the mix's biggest selling point, suggesting a dance label whose wild outbursts of creativity cannot easily be landscaped into behaving.  "}