{"label":" Huume","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8920/homepage_large.b2a37404.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Uusitalo","title":"Tulenkantaja","text":"  There's a whole lot of open vowels in the titles to Uusitalo's Tulenkantaja, which apart from being par for the Finnish course, makes a certain kind of onomatopoeic sense, given that the whole thing is pretty much one big wideopen Ahhhhhhhhhuuuuuuuuhhhhhhheeeee. That's not to say it's a snoozer rather that like much of Sasu Ripatti's work, including that done under his betterknown monikers, Luomo and Vladislav Delay, Tulenkantaja favors sprawling structures, bulbous bass tones, and an approach to mood that feels like a slowburning candle held up to the sublime. So if you know Luomo's Vocalcity, or any of Vladislav Delay's opulent ambient releases for Chain Reaction and Mille Plateaux, you'll see that Tulenkantaja is also par for the course; Ripatti certainly hasn't jettisoned his subaquatic soundbanks or reprogrammed his reverbs, which continue to unfold in characteristically magnificent, granular style. But there are a few twists in the fabric of his dub cosmos, as well. The opening \"Paskaa Musaa\" starts off like a Vocalcity outtake, with cobwebbed pads weaving direct links back to tone and timbre of his earlier work, but a curious moment occurs about a minute in: All of Ripatti's trademark delay falls away to reveal the stubbiest bass sound he's ever shaped, as it goes bonking about in an empty room furnished only with desiccated rimshots and snares. It's not funky, exactly even at his most syncopated, Ripatti's percussive outbursts are peculiarly square but it's a hell of a lot more uptempo than the sole other Uusitalo release to date, 2000's drifting Vapaa Muurari Live, in which all of the elements feel as solid as spun sugar. Throughout the album, it's the subtle changes that stand out appropriately, I would add, for an artist for whom the theme and variations has always been his defining trope. \"Luminies\" and \"Uutta Verta Hangella\" employ bright, glitterflecked synthesizers and string pads that might not sound out of place on an Environ record, chirpy and not a little bit whimsical. At the same time, it's tempting to say that his drums have gotten angrier: Listen to the insistent, stabbing snares and kicks on \"Odottava Peto\" and \"Tulenkantaja\", which seem to draw more energy from dubstep than deep house. On the ravy \"Tervatahroja\", outfitted with tubular leads and a gnarled arpeggio, Ripatti sharpens his hihats into the closest approximation of jacking house that he's ever come.  \"Misut Irti/Huutaa\" might be the best example of the ways in which Ripatti has developed his sound. On the one hand it's a classic display of all his favorite tropes: muffled whispers, clouds of static, crisp snares, singleminded twonote bass lines. But at the same time, Ripatti's sense of space seems to have expanded, with different voices making more precise spectral footprints than ever before. It's richer timbrally, too, layering pulse waves with plucked strings and something that sounds almost like a Hammond organ, thrumming with tremolo. Those who have spent scant time with Ripatti's other albums will probably think, \"par for the course,\" and in many ways they'll be right: like the rest of Ripatti's output, Tulenkantaja is at its root yet another remix of a remix of a remix. But for those of us who dig the inner infinities of repetition say, those of us who think that Andy Vaz and Unwound may share more common formal traits than differences the album shuffles confidently towards the perfection of ideal, one burst of delay at a time.  "}