{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8927/homepage_large.e0558aec.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Primal Scream","title":"Riot City Blues","text":"  It's not totally impossible that sometime in the future, some intrepid soul might be able to sing a lyric like \"there's no sun in the sky, no love in my life/ Since I lost my baby, all I do is cry\" over mandolins and honkytonk pianos and manage not to sound like a complete dipshit. But chances are that person isn't going to be a white middleaged British exraver rockstar with a fake American accent and an affected garagerock yelp. Primal Scream's Bobby Gillespie has made a career of stacking genres on top of each other into huge messy glorious piles of acidhouse and krautrock and shoegaze and Stooges, and that approach has given us Screamadelica and Vanishing Point and XTRMNTR. But whenever he dips his toe into tradrock formalism, that adventurous streak dries up right away and mutates into stifled reverence. 1994's Give Out But Don't Give Up was the first time he humped the desiccated corpse of garageblues, and it resulted in Primal Scream's artistic nadir, but it had a certain horntinged exuberance and a couple of good hooks.Riot City Blues, Gillespie's new tradmove, on the other hand, is flat and dead. It's as if Primal Scream have run completely out of ideas and so they've reverted to the detestable fallbacks of honking harmonicas and barband choogles, acting like college freshmen who just discovered blues.  \"Nitty Gritty\" is straight up circa2003 garagerock pastiche; it shoots for the Stones and ends up with the Datsuns. \"Dolls\" is a desperate grab for handclappy glamrock stompsniff hedonism so forced and clumsy that it should be in a Sparks commercial. \"Boogie Disease\" includes the lyric \"I'm the garbage man, I'm the garbage man/ Stick my fingers in your trashcan,\" which is especially ridiculous because everybody knows British people say \"bin.\" The album is packed to the gills with empty signifiers: yelps and sneers and partyup exhortations, but it's so limp and defeated that it's impossible to hate; you just end up feeling sorry for it instead.  Even in its relatively ok moments, the album fails. The decent forbiddingthrob bassline of \"When the Bomb Drops\" makes me feel bad for Scream bassist Mani, who has now been roped into the second retrorock disaster of his career after already weathering the Stone Roses' Second Coming. \"Country Girl\" has a nice little guitarandmandolin bite that reminds me of Miranda Lambert's \"Kerosene\", but it just makes me wish I was listening to \"Kerosine\". And the sixandahalf minute breathy monolithic psychedelicflute drone of \"Little Death\" reminds me how welcome it is to have Espers around doing this sort of thing without all the cheesedout garagerock moans and sneers.  Primal Scream's last album, 2002's Evil Heat, wasn't great, but its scratchy blissedout electroclangs yielded a few powerful moments. Gillespie always manages to come up with something interesting when he errs toward hazy ravecasualty fuzzbombs instead of the bloozrawk yelps that not even Jack White can pull off properly anymore. After Riot City Blues, someone needs to point a Men In Black memoryeraser at him and make him forget the Mississippi Delta ever existed.  "}