{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8941/homepage_large.95f44c98.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Psapp","title":"The Only Thing I Ever Wanted","text":"  Try listening to Londonbased duo Psapp through the ears of Alexandra Patsavas. She's the music supervisor for \"The O.C.\", which has had Psapp on its soundtrack, as well as for \"Grey's Anatomy\", which uses Psapp's \"Cosy in the Rocket\" as its theme song. Patsavas grew up in Chicago in the 1980s, so John Hughes' films likely informed her ideas of how pop music relates to drama. With this influence as a filter, the characteristics of the music Patsavas has helped popularize come in focus. The strand of cuddly electronic indie pop in particular characterized by the Postal Service and Psapp is being received as a tender sonic amplification of youthful angst. To my ears, the music is almost there, but something doesn't wash; I suspect technology itself, which enables so much music of this ilk, may be to blame. Sonically, the vast majority of this laptop pop is thin and brittle, a serious problem considering the desired effect. Take the home studio production of Psapp's second album, The Only Thing I Ever Wanted. Though it comes over as reasonably professional, its sound is boxy and static, which is odd since it's filled with wheezy organs and xylophones and keyboards of every stripe. All the instrumental variety is flattened somewhere inside the computer and the sounds become interchangeable. There's no dynamic range and thus the backing tracks provide no emotional cues. The \"Strawberry Fields\" organ and violin fills on \"New Rubbers\", for example, don't resonate the way they should. The problems are typical for producers whose idea of arrangement is loading samples onto the computer and dragging and dropping the various loops into place.  The drab sound is a shame considering the wellconstructed songs and Galia Durant's emerging strength as a vocalist. She's only 27 but she seems wise beyond her years. Her voice is knowing, confident, sly, and sexy; she's able to articulate subtle shades of mood. The tunes, though they need a couple of listens to sink in, are catchy in a very clever way. The melodies bring to mind Stereolab around the time of Dots and Loops accessible while accommodating diverse influences, with some surprising twists and turns. With its swoosh of strings and digital approximation of a horn section, the clever midtempo ballad \"This Way\" comes closest to the 'Lab standard. Elsewhere, Durant reminds me of Dani Siciliano, as in the way she phrases \"Needle & Thread\", her words artfully trailing off as she holds notes for an extra beat or two.  But the stiff clatter of the production robs these fine songs of their vitality. Psapp has in the past recruited musician friends to help them present songs live; with any luck, for the next record they'll keep these musicians in the band and get together with a proper producer. Maybe ring up Sean O'Hagen to arrange some strings. This music cries out for warmth and space, and if it gets it, that classic teenflick poignancy is easily within Psapp's grasp.  "}