{"label":" Adultswim.com","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8943/homepage_large.cc1f09ce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Danger Doom","title":"The Occult Hymn EP","text":"  Over the past couple of years, the Cartoon Network has slowly shifted its target market from a gradeschool audience to a more reliable demographic: stoners. Sure, since the channel's origin, the overnight schedule with its trippy reruns of 1970s fare like \"The Harlem Globetrotters\" and \"Wacky Races\" appealed to viewers under the influence. But since the advent, and subsequent rapid expansion, of its original Adult Swim programming, the network has seemingly tailored its programming to college students and latenight tokers, two groups with a pretty big overlap on a Venn diagram. Not for nothing is the block's most popular show about talking fast food. Where cartoons and weed are being prioritized, you're sure to find MF Doom, so it was no surprise that his collaboration with fellow Topps Future Star Danger Mouse ended up being Adult Swimaffiliated. Just as cartoons like \"Sealab\" and \"Harvey Birdman\" with their pregnant pauses, quarterhour runtime, and noplot plots are suited to the marijuana mind, so too are Doom and Danger's loping beats, clever rhymes, and teehee dialogue snippets. Yet even with this compatibility, Danger Doom's debut album, The Mouse and the Mask, suffered from the diminishing rewards of its constant cartoonvoice intrusions. Like many hiphop skits, the samples were funny at first, tedious at third, and unbearable by the fifth listen in no small part due to the irritating frequency range used by most Adult Swim voice actors (all three of them). Only with Danger Doom, the skits were the songs in a lot of cases, making a surgical skitectomy procedure on one's iPod impossible, and contaminating highlights like Ghostface's fiery verse on \"The Mask\". The Occult Hymn EP, a free download available at adultswim.com, is suffused with snippets from secondtier Adult Swim shows. The Cartoon Network's graveyard shift has started to Xerox itself with shows like \"Squidbillies\" (a hick \"ATHF\") and \"12 oz. Mouse\" (the asymptote of the block's crude style), and so appropriately this epilogue album is largely made up of remixes and sequels, with only one purely original track, the hohum \"Korn Dogz\". For both cartoon and record, these echoes are mere dilutions of the original, save Madlib's elevatormusic makeover of \"Space Ho's\".  Danger Mouse and MF Doom can be forgiven for phoning a few in, given the various largescale projects the producers are currently busy promoting and preparing. Nonetheless, the new versions on Occult Hymn largely strip back the mutated Saturday morning theme songs of the original in favor of tired jazzloop wallpaper, with both the \"El Chupa Libre\" and \"Sofa King\" remixes relying on generic electricpiano fusion. Doom, meanwhile, sounds drained on his new verses, laboring to conjure an extended Back to the Future reference on \"Chupa\", and sprinkling in lukewarm accolades about the new Adult Swim fare.  You can't hate too hard on a free EP though, and as promotional material and branding maneuver, the Danger Doom collaboration has been an unqualified success. There could be worse musicindustry innovations than a patronage industry for rappers to make songs about their favorite TV shows; I'd definitely rightclick on a Cam track about \"Mythbusters\" or Kanye rhapsodizing about \"Project Runway\". However, the pitch has to reflect the product being sold, and The Occult Hymn's second drafts don't reflect the bizarre pacing and twisted humor of Adult Swim the way The Mouse and the Mask's highlights did. Even when your audience is predominantly stoners, you can't get away with halfgrassing it.  "}