{"label":" Frisbee Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8950/homepage_large.1fd963f5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Ricardo Villalobos","title":"Salvador","text":" Another month, another Ricardo Villalobos review. Some of you are already grinding your teeth as you jump on the nearest forum to bitch that Pitchfork's getting as shamelessly obsessed with Villalobos as we are (were?) with Kompakt, to the exclusion of all of Detroit's True Greats, or the UK's Unheralded Heroes of Hardcore, or perhaps simply those bedroom producers toiling away on limitedrun CDRs that will surely show us all how it's truly done. That's ok. We're used to it, and none of that makes talking about Villalobos any less interesting, or indeed necessary. You'd be wise to soak up everything you can get your hands on by the prolific and mildly infamous Chilean/German producer and DJ, because for more than a decade he's been subtly (and sometimes notsosubtly) redefining what dance music, minimal house, and techno can do and be. Part of the reason there's so much crap \"minimal\" out there is because Villalobos has been making such absolutely original releases for so long. People want to cop that shit, because it's one of the few newly blazed trails in electronic music. Despite the minimal backlash, there's still plenty of room to swing a machete through the leftover underbrush. But in the meantime, chasing Villalobos' prints through the fetid swamp is more than enough to occupy our time. All of which makes Salvador a particularly interesting Villalobos release, since it compiles recordings that date back five to eight years, when they originally appeared on Frankfurt's Frisbee Tracks label. This isn't the Villalobos of 2006, veering off into electroacoustic free techno across a slew of 20minuteplus drum tracks burned to CDR and intended for his own DJ sets only. (He played me a few of them in Berlin and at MUTEK, and while they're more floororiented than the mindmelting Achso, they're hardly less freaky; indeed, in may ways, they're the rawest snapshot of Villalobos' creative progress yet, as they sound mostly improvised and unedited, full of toggling downbeats, seasick modulations, and unresolved rhythmic collisions. Each one feels like coming up and coming down all at once, which given Ricardo's recreational proclivities might make sense. According to Villalobos, he's including at least one of his privateedition drum tracks in his upcoming Fabric mix, so fear not: You'll hear 'em eventually.) No, this is Villalobos finding his way out of the classic minimal techno of a decade ago, and forging towards the voice that has increasingly become unmistakably his own. When I asked him why he chose to release Salvador, he explained that Frisbee owns the copyright on all his tracks for the label, released between 1998 and 2001. \"There was no possibility of me saying no,\" he said. \"I asked them to send me the finished tracklisting, and in the end I found it to be a kind of snapshot of what I had done, of where I come from. That music was much more obvious, much easier to understand.\" His music today, he went on, reveals itself more slowly, over time. \"But when I was younger, I received a stimulus, an input, and I directly routed it to the track itself. And that stimulus was nightlife, the party.\"Salvador is Villalobos' most straightforward release in many years. (\"Que Belle Epoque 2006\" has been remastered, but the other tracks are in their original versions.) But this hardly makes it less engaging. \"Que Belle Epoque\" is a 13minute churn built on bizarrely syncopated synthetic congas and a hypnotic ostinato synth. As it evolves, a heartrending vocal melody comes up like the sun over the Atacama Desert, with little flute riffs following like vapor trails. In many ways, the track isn't at all different from Villalobos' current DJ tools; it's meant to be mixed, above all, creating a trance state in which offbeat handclaps continually yank you deeper into the vortex. The CD's seven remaining tracks proceed in a similar manner; \"Tempura\" is a clattering, percussive workout that really would only come to life in the context of a DJ set (though it still makes for pretty gripping listening at home). The spacious \"Suesse Cheques\" finds him holding back on the boomtick til over halfway through its sevenminute length, instead exploring pure drum sound and room tone. \"Unflug\" and \"LugomIX\" hear him attempting to graft Detroit synthesizers to his characteristic, Latin polyrhythms; where they sound crude, the minimal house groover \"Lazer@Present\" absolutely triumphs, a miracle of shoomping twonote chords, evermorphing drum patterns, and a kick that drops out and sneaks back in when you least expect it. For good measure, the CD also contains Villalobos' mix of Señor Coconut's \"Electrolatino\" (originally released on the Frisbee sister imprint Multicolor), and it's something else entirely. Well, yes and no: The synthesizers do something you've never quite heard in a Villalobos track, bleeding like Rorschach spots all over the low end, while a metronomic cowbell nags like a guilty conscience. In between those two poles, though, Villalobos' nimble patterns go soaring once again, exploring every angle of flight and pocket of air, where all that is solid melts into rhythm, and all that is rhythm melts into infinity. "}