{"label":" Time-Lag","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8951/homepage_large.86b7bd43.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Matt Valentine and Erika Elder / The Bummer Road","title":"Mother of Thousands","text":"  Since the dissolution of the pioneering freefolk collective Tower Recordings, former TR guitarist Matthew Valentine (MV) and vocalist/multiinstrumentalist Erika Elder (EE) have been making strange rural magic together deep in the Vermont hinterlands. Their music is a distinctive blend of astral blues, creaky backwoods ragas, and ecstatic postArkestral navigation. Alongside a revolving cast of collaborators, the duo have issued a torrent of smallbatch recordings, most of which have been released on their own Child of Microtones imprint. Their massive and overgrown back catalog has been crying out for a defining benchmark, and the new TimeLag 2xCD set Mother of Thousands appears specially designed to meet that demand. Valentine and Elder are joined here by the Bummer Road, a talented quintet of musicians that includes Moses Jiggs on harmonica, Samara Lubelski on strings, and Quakebasket's prolific Tim Barnes on percussion. While I don't typically hold the harmonica in high esteem, Jiggs' work on Mother of Thousands is consistently spellbinding. His shivering, disembodied tones perfectly complement Valentine's lead guitar figures, casting obscure signals skyward like heatwaves off a parched stretch of Mississippi blacktop. Valentine and Elder share the vocal duties equally, although nearly every track is eventually allowed to shake loose from its frontporch moorings and be carried away by the Bummer Road's communal tides.Mother of Thousands is split into two distinct halves, the first of which consists largely of shorter, acousticbased originals. With a firm grounding in countryblues tradition, much of Valentine and Elder's material can serve as a reminder that rural life isn't necessarily all green meadows and bucolic escapism. \"Trying to move to the country/ Where the cold rain kept on falling/ Some of the people I love/ Are six feet under the ground\", the duo sing on \"Cold Rain\", their harmonies sounding worn and fragile above Valentine's nimble 12string guitar. On \"Canned Heat Blues\" they transmit their alien hobo laments over a gauzy web of hand percussion and sitar, while the despondent \"C.C. Pills\" makes its bleary way through an assemblage of mutated flute and analog drones. The set also leavens these darker moods with the sunny folk of \"Beautiful Mountain\" and numinous, nearly wordless abstractions like \"The Joyous Within\" or \"Sunshine on Us All\", allowing the album's first half to achieve an enthralling crosstextual symmetry.  On the second disc the Bummer Road applies the power of its arsenal towards the reconstruction of such traditional folkblues songs as Mississippi John Hurt's \"Payday\" and the Rev. Gary Davis' \"Death Don't Have No Mercy\". On their expansive \"Meditations on Payday,\" the group breaks Hurt's song down at a molecular level, causing isolated shards of guitar, voice, and harp to float apart like slowmoving, honeycolored clouds. Elder adds a narcotic take on Charley Patton's \"Banty Rooster Blues\" before the whole company again moves into their jawdropping, 24minute version of \"Death Don't Have No Mercy\". Here the group makes the album's most potent use of electricity, improvising in a manner that recalls both 197071 vintage Grateful Dead and electricera Miles Davis. Over the course of the song's duration, Valentine's guitar slowly gains in tubemelting distortion until it suddenly drops away beneath Elder's crystalline, eerily placid vocal.  As with the rest of Mother of Thousands, \"Death Don't Have No Mercy\" makes clear that Valentine and Elder remain at the center of their own singular cosmology. But it's also evident that this particular incarnation of the Bummer Road provides the duo with an unusually cohesive and sympathetic supporting cast, and one can only hope that this album is the first of many such masterstrokes.  "}