{"label":" Yeti","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8953/homepage_large.b6d8db80.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Yeti #3","text":"  From 1984 to 1995, writer Mike McGonigal published his influential fanzine Chemical Imbalance. Within its dense pages, McGonigal ably demonstrated how an essentially punkcentered zine could expand into wider realms of experimental music, transgressive literature, and visual arts to become a vivid personal and broadbased cultural statement. In addition to being a generally engaging read, C.I. was also one of the first zines to release a 7inch single not just some flimsy flexidisc with every issue, making available previously unreleased tracks by Big Black, Sonic Youth, Pavement, and Yo La Tengo, among others. And though Chemical Imbalance is now just a memory, McGonigal has maintained and furthered its multimedia traditions with Yeti, his current, eventhicker arts and music journal. The third and most recent volume of Yeti is an impressive 244page behemoth that contains interviews with William S. Burroughs, Neko Case, and Devendra Banhart in addition to a truckload of diverse writings and handsome illustrations. As if all that was not enough, Yeti #3 also includes a massive 27track companion CD that features three demo tracks by Banhart as well as contributions from Colin Meloy, Iron and Wine, and the Postal Service. While the inclusion of an accompanying CD is not uncommon in today's magazine market, most such compilations are a dreary dumping ground of outtakes, castoffs, and/or widely available album cuts. Such is not the case with Yeti #3, however, as everything here is either previously unreleased or otherwise suitably rare, and with a few notable exceptions each of these tracks proves to be a worthy addition to its creator's discography. If nothing else, the songs collected on Yeti #3 can serve as a useful barometer to gauge the prevailing tendencies in a certain corner of the DIY musical landscape. Though it includes pieces by such noteworthy underground figures as Henry Flynt and Steffen BashoJunghans, the collection does not feature anything fiercely avantgarde or experimental. Neither does it include anything that owes any particular debt to punk rock, which is certainly a far cry from Chemical Imbalance's noisier posthardcore trajectory. Instead, Yeti #3 concentrates its attention largely on more folk and rootsbased material, along with a healthy smattering of electronic bedroom pop. As such, it's hardly the most adventurous compilation that McGonigal has ever assembled, nor is it free from the pesky continuity glitches that naturally plague multiartist compilations.  Nevertheless, this set is a surprisingly solid listen from start to finish, with few outright duds to spoil its cautious momentum. The idea of Banhart demo tapes might seem rather redundant for those familiar with his Oh Me Oh My...album, but his three brief solo contributions each compare favorably to the material on his debut. Jolie Holland shines on her vibrant live reading of the traditional \"Don't Get Trouble On Your Mind,\" as does Sam Beam on Iron and Wine's typically lustrous \"John's Glass Eye.\" The Brooklynbased combo Timesbold give their track \"Fencepost\" a wicked Tom Waitslike carnival lurch, while relatively unknown acts the Dream Lovers, Nov. 16th, and World each work fruitfully with avantfolk/pop of varying hues and textures.  The album's biggest revelation, however, is \"Hillbilly Jive (Version)\", a short, previously unheard solo fiddle nugget from composer/performer Henry Flynt. As with much of Flynt's tradinspired work, this potent track sounds like something that Alan Lomax might've recorded had he stumbled across Tony Conrad practicing violin on the front porch of some West Virginian cabin. Also not to be missed is Washington Phillips' \"What Are They Doing in Heaven Today?\", an irresistible slice of prewar gospel blues that closes the album. Alongside powerhouse performances like these, tracks like Colin Meloy's live take on Morrissey's \"Everyday Is Like Sunday\" or the Robot Ate Me's clunky \"We Were Human\" seem featherweight and ultimately inconsequential in comparison.  It should be noted that the above rating reflects only the musical portion of Yeti #3's presentation. When taken in conjunction with the booklength sprawl of the accompanying zine, Yeti #3 should prove to be a tantalizing document for any true scholar of marginal pop culture, a package that easily meets McGonigal's stated intention that \"Healthy confusion is always the goal.\" I've seen reports that McGonigal is already at work assembling the contents for Yeti #4, so you had better start reading soon if don't want to risk falling behind.  "}