{"label":" Automation","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/8956/homepage_large.32dfbe62.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Cex","title":"Actual Fucking","text":"  Some exposition: The first letter in Rjyan Kidwell's stage name is pronounced with a soft sound, like an \"s.\" He started out just screwing around on the computer, making melodic Aphex Twininspired IDM, but he liked to have fun live. He used to rock fronts and freestyle and violate his onstage props in tawdry and unsavory ways. He started to rap on record. His records started to get a little darker. He went away for a while. Yes, that's a ring on his finger. He was in this other band with his wife, but now he's back as Cex again. What does his music sound like now? Well...it sounds like fucking. Emphasis on Actual this isn't any airbrushed fantasy we're talking about. From the beats on the record to the titillating stories in the booklet and Midnite Vulturesgoesporn aesthetic of the cover, Actual Fucking is up front about its intentions. But more than just being forward, Cex knows that actual sex is unpredictable and, well, messy much like this record. (Sex can be awkward, too, but we'll get there in a moment.) It's not terribly different from previous Cex records, and not even that far from Maryland Mansions, though he's dropped his Bboy affectations almost entirely. Kidwell has pulled Cex inside out, keeping the mood but quitting the parroting and finding a new and, dare I say, original sound. Yes, there are some obvious nods to Talking Heads' Remain in Light, especially on \"Los Angeles\", but Actual Fucking wipes the slate clean and builds from two pillars: Beats that are as sleazy and threatening as possible, and crescendos that are natural and intuitive.  Unfortunately, Actual Fucking is all start and no finish it's all downhill from the debased industrial slink of the opener \"Baltimore\". While the booklet promises guest stars like Jason Cadell (the Dismemberment Plan) and Tim Kinsella (who rapsings over the grinding neighborhoodnamechecking \"Chicago\"), Actual Fucking was mostly culled from a series of jam sessions with Portland noiserockers Nice Nice that were cutup and reassembled by Kidwell. The slapdash assembly shows Actual Fucking is a series of fascinating vignettes that never quite gel.  The vocal by Roby Newton (aka Ms. Kidwell, formerly of Milemarker) in the drifting, abstract soundscape of \"Denton\", a song built on little more than a muffled drum track, is unhinged and almost frightening in its carnality. \"Ybor City\" begins as a berating postblinddate voicemail from an unimpressed mallrat over a subtle techno backdrop before becoming the kind of acoustic guitar breather you'd hear on a postrock or Anticon record. The beat to \"Covington\" is hard and heavy, layered with organs and watery drones, but Kidwell's hyperdramatic abstractions about cars and salad bars aren't enough to anchor the song. The record ends unceremoniously on \"Tucumcari\", a few more organs and sampled strings being all that's left to add.  It's a huge headfirst leap into the unknown for Kidwell, and more often than not, he sounds pretty lost. But it's an encouraging kind of lost, and the scenery is often breathtaking when it's not so jarring. It'd be a shame to never get another Cex record when he's finally tapping into his potential.  "}