{"label":" Lo","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8957/homepage_large.414b7b3a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Susumu Yokota","title":"Wonder Waltz","text":" Since Susumu Yokota often assembles tracks from untreated samples, his albums can seem like nothing more than a tour through his taste in music. We know he likes tribal percussion, ethereal female voices, lush western classical, and the repetition of the minimalists. The proportions vary from album to album and his large discography has a surprising amount of variety, but at least a few of these favored elements are always present. Yokota's latest album draws from several styles without focusing on any one. Opener \"1000 Wing Beats Per Second\", a looped clip of chirpy woodwinds references the obsession with European classical he displayed on last year's Symbol. A woman's voice offers a dreamy incantation, and then a lazy (in every sense) triphop beat sets the pace. It's classic Yokota all glittery surfaces and sugary frosting and gushy prettiness and it develops an odd sense of depth despite its severe lack of complexity. \"Capital of Daisy\" is in a similar vein, adding some Middle Eastern chants, vocoder bits, and a grinding music box to the mix. The use of voice to suggest songs as opposed to the rhythmic punctuation of Meredith Monk is a new twist, but Wonder Waltz doesn't stay in any one place long. Instead, it follows a lot of blind alleys. \"Pegasus 150\" is nothing more than a stiff loop of hand drums and a wailing voice thirdtier Dead Can Dance for a coffee shop WorldBeat comp, something to be slotted next to the Afro Celt Sound System. \"Robed Heart\" adds some violin to the same formula and tries for something more lilting, but the melody is MIA and the singer has difficulty staying on key. \"L'etranger\" seems to have wandered in from a bad new wave album, with a tight synth loop and spoken French run through a delay bringing zero emotional content. And \"Rainbow Dust\" references the Orb and other classic early 1990s ambient house, but does little to develop its spacey synths.  You get the sense that Yokota works too quickly, cutting and pasting ideas as they come without much thought to how their impact could be maximized. You also get the sense that this is how he prefers to operate, since he's been prolific for the past dozen years and has managed a small handful of sublime records. Wonder Waltz feels mostly like a collection of duff experiments fun to explore but with little staying power.  "}