{"label":" Columbia","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/8961/homepage_large.1d860572.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Dead Man Walking: Music From and Inspired by the Motion Picture","text":" Bruce Springsteen received an Oscar nomination for the title track from this wellmeaning soundtrack in 1995, but there are at least 10 more deserving songs on this disc. Compiled by Tim Robbins, who directed the movie, this collection of songs inspired by a rough cut of Dead Man Walking only a few of which were actually used in the film is an earnest look at the death penalty, a worthy and endlessly complex issue regardless of your feelings about it. However, even 11 years later, the songs sound surprisingly scattershot. Robbins chose the \"songwriters whose music tells stories, artists that do not write songs with hooks or tricks,\" he writes in the liner notes, but placing them all together only shows the strengths in some and the weaknesses in others. Tom Waits contributes two very different tracks that tackle seemingly opposite sides of a crime: \"The Fall of Troy\" is a sad lament about a family broken by tragedy, one crime leading to many others; \"Walk Away\" is a sprintpaced tale of wouldbe robbers. The former is all slumped shoulders and weighted sighs: \"It's hard to say grace and sit in the place of someone missing at the table,\" Waits sings, as if summoning the strength for each next note. By contrast, \"Walk Away\" propelled by hand claps and smoky reed instruments is agile and motional, speeding through details like \"William Ray shot Corabell Lee\" as if driving a getaway car. No other artist reaches this level of empathy Waits has the temerity to tell these tales, but the integrity to suggest he can't possibly know how such upheaval truly feels. Johnny Cash probably does. His song \"In Your Mind\" has a breezy authority that makes capital punishment seem like a cosmic joke: \"Eternity is down the hall and you sit there bending spoons,\" he sings authoritatively. Sounding like the Texas cousin to Springsteen's Nebraska, Steve Earle's literal storysong \"Ellis Unit One\" makes death row sound like a nightmare to anyone who steps foot there, guards and prisoners alike. Suzanne Vega's \"Woman on the Tier (I'll See You Through)\" uses clattering beats to suggest the moral turmoil of those final minutes no rest for the weary or the wicked.  Too many of these wellmeaning songs sound overly sanctimonious, with results that are too timid to assert a humane point about death and murder. Bruce Springsteen's title track sounds like a summary of crime and punishment rather than an invested story; Lyle Lovett's \"Promises\" is deadly dull; and Mary Chapin Carpenter's \"Dead Man Walking (A Dream Like This)\" portrays mortal fear with Hallmark card sentimentality. At the time of its original release, the soundtrack's most distinctive tracks were two duets between Eddie Vedder and Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, the late qawwali vocalist. But it's an awkward pairing: Vedder sounds like a tourist, and Ali Khan sounds entirely too large and transcendent for such a modest song. At least Lovett redeems himself on the DVD, titled \"Not in Our Name\": Dead Man Walking The Concert. Either playing alone on stage or with fellow Texan Earle, Lovett knows that first and foremost he's putting on a show, so he plays to the audience rather than to posterity. By contrast, Ani diFranco looks completely overwhelmed, and Vedder just looks blissfully stoned. For this they cut Waits and Michelle Shocked? All the sincerity in the world couldn't save this show. "}