{"label":" Koch","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8967/homepage_large.64441911.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Big Star, Small World","text":"  Big Star never enjoyed the fame or fortune that their name copped from a supermarket chain would suggest. But in the first half of the 1970s, exBox Top Alex Chilton and company cranked out three nearly flawless albums: The pure powerpop of #1 Record, the hookladen Radio City, and the uncompromising and elegiac Third/Sister Lovers. A string of unlikely distribution snafus kept all three out of the hands of the recordbuying public, so it's fitting then that an album paying belated homage to Big Star would suffer a similar fate. In 1998, Big Star drummer Jody Stephens worked with Ignition Records to compile Big Star, Small World, but the label went belly up before it was released. Earlier this year, Koch Records bought the rights to the tapes and have belatedly issued the compilation. Unsurprisingly then, listening to Big Star, Small World is akin to digging up a time capsule. With a roster of contributors that includes Matthew Sweet, Juliana Hatfield, and the Gin Blossoms, the album's as embarrassingly dated as high school yearbook photos. Instead of showcasing a group of great songs, it triggers memories of mid90s alsorans like Better Than Ezra or Letters to Cleo. Even the most relevant band of the bunch, Wilco, is vacuumsealed in its earnest altcountry phase, liberally adding lap steel guitar to \"Thirteen\". The compilation's biggest flaw, though, is how unimaginatively the bands approach the material. Reverence is one thing, but Sweet, for example, goes so far as to recreate specific guitar tones and perfectly preserve drum fills on \"The Ballad of El Goodo\". Only a couple of bands flex their creative muscles: Afghan Whigs transform the fragile \"Nightime\" by adding anthemic guitar riffs, organ, and Greg Dulli's elongated phrasing, while the Posies whose Jon Auer and Ken Stringfellow have toured with Chilton as Big Star in recent years add heavy guitars and a little screeching feedback to an otherwise faithful rendition of \"What's Goin Ahn\". The rest of the contributors seem content to roleplay as their heroes, offering something closer to impersonation than any thoughtful reworking of the material.  Oddly enough, a reformed Big Star contribute a new track to their own tribute album. The band sounds light years away from its golden era, getting in on the aforementioned impersonation act themselves. With a riff swiped from \"Wild Thing\" and Chilton still relying on the lexicon of high school love for lyrical fodder, \"Hot Thing\" sounds passionless and bored. Then again, that kind of phonedin performance makes it a perfect fit among such an uninspired set. "}