{"label":" Recordhead / Smokeylung","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/906/homepage_large.11cf25fd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Camilo Arturo Leslie","artist":"Brando","title":"The Headless Horseman Is a Preacher","text":" Beatlesque, Bowieish, and Galaxie 500like are the synonyms that most often get thrown at the wall of How to Describe Brando's Music. And while they stick for a second, in a moment they've begun to walk their way down to the floor like those creepy crawler 25¢ toys made from that hideous adhesive gummyrubber stuff. In other words, they're close, but only useful insofar as Brando's sound is difficult to pin down. You can make do with the creepy crawler tags, but Brando's songs are a loveitorhateit sonic Teflon that you owe it to yourself to hear. It's remarkable that a band that sounds as warm and fully integrated as Brando, in reality, has its core members scattered over an almost silly geographical expanse. Some live in Indiana the band's originally from Bloomington a couple of them call Chicago home, and one is raising a family in Brazil. Derek Richey's voice does indeed recall Bowie's more nasally moments. And Brando's songs do often detour into odd glam byways that their more despondent \"recorded in my mom's basement\" songs leave you illprepared to process. Which brings up another strange thing about the band from two continents: how albumlike an album they've been able to put together out of so many disparate styles. The Headless Horseman is a Preacher opens with the title track, a short but pleasant electroshoegazer introduction. \"The Fight Club Song\" follows with its unnerving vocal and guitar melodies, wavering synth lines, and drumming that sounds only barely more human than the Casio beats from the previous track. Neither song is stellar, but together, they lay the moodfoundation, for what comes after \"The Seed\" is distinctly songwriterly indiepop with a splinterlike melody and scratchy but brilliant guitar chords. There's something and you may have guessed this by now weirdly, well, British about this band. \"The Seed,\" in particular, sounds like a grotesque and yet beautiful mix between the songcraft of Death Cab's Ben Gibbard and the Pale Saints. \"Theories of Division\" and \"Pilot of This Ship\" continue in much the same vein, the latter revealing Richey's Bowieisms a bit more obviously than before, and with more than an echo of postFab Four Lennon. \"Hold Me Mine\" shifts gears dramatically, with a sultry bassdriven feel that's sexy and slowly propulsive, until the spell is snapped by \"Leaving the Scene of the Crime\" with its Ringo snare rolls and \"Strawberry Fields\" background vocals. The album slumps with \"When in Rome,\" \"The Leaving of Aytech\" and \"Overtime,\" which bring out the glitter, platforms, and tootight clothing, earning the band every unwanted Bowie comparison they ever got. Yet, these tracks are mediated through an undeniably American prism of soporific indie pop musical sensibility. The best thing that can be said about The Headless Horseman is a Preacher, other than that the first listens yield quite a few winners, is that repeated listens will reward the patient. Still, this is heavily moody, selfindulgent fare for wallowing in your own youness. Preferably with a succession of stiff drinks. Shelve the Spiders from Mars and your whole catalog of midtolate 90s fuzzpop for a few days, and see if you can handle this strangely natural sounding hybrid of the two. "}