{"label":" Hefty","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8988/homepage_large.4586cf4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Hefty Digest + Prefuse 73 Mixtape","text":"  So many labels have celebrated 10year anniversaries in the past few years. Between Merge, Matador, Thrill Jockey, Warp, Suicide Squeeze, and Ninja Tune, the early and mid1990s were apparently a good time to start an indie. Communication was accelerating and alternative culture was happening, but there wasn't yet a filesharing infrastructure in place to siphon away CD sales. Chicago's Hefty turned 10 this year and they've released three comps to celebrate. Two are filled with remixes and new tracks, and this 2xCD set contains a onedisc bestofthelabel along with another containing a mix selected and sequenced by Prefuse 73's Scott Herren. Hefty has always had a lot in common with Thrill Jockey maybe too much. Both are based in Chicago. Various flavors of postrock are the bread and butter for each. Both release a fair amount of IDM but no true dance music. Both dabble in the occasional jazz release or reissue. And both represent the musical taste and vision of a single founder. In Hefty's case, that's John Hughes III, scion of the godfather of 80s teen movies and leader of the band Bill Ding.  Listening to the \"Favorites\" disc I'm reminded of how much Hefty values subtlety, as their artists generally reach for an atmosphere of studied remove. There's nothing spazzy or chaotic or humorous here; instead, Hefty artists like Telefon Tel Aviv, Euphone, and Prefuse side project Savath + Savalas opt for a cerebral vibe that's a click or two more intense than downtempo. The eternal cool of the jazz performer seems to be the spiritual inspiration; two tracks from Detroit trombonist Phil Ranelin (his funky original \"Vibes from the Tribe\" and a P73 remix of \"Wife\") reinforce the idea, as does the relaxed swing of the electronic jazz trio Samadha, who are like the American version of Triosk. There's nothing particularly inspiring here which is troubling since these are supposed to be \"Favorites\" but it's still solid and listenable. And Hughes himself delivers with Slicker's \"Frustrache\", which is as simple and wonderful as ever.  The P73 mix is better. By selecting shorter bits of 21 tracks, varying the pace, and focusing on some of the oddball material in the catalog (speaking relatively here), Herren makes a case for the label as an encouraging place for experimentation. A slice of hiphop from recent signee Eliot Lipp bumps up against some vocodered rapping and then Herren's groovy remix of Slicker's \"Dahm Foos\". The heavenly vocals on Telefon Tel Aviv's \"Map of What Is Effortless\" bloom like a timelapse film of a flower from the soil of Some Water and Sun's \"Ah Oh\". Hints of Phil Ranelin are sprinkled here and there until the full version of \"Vibes From the Tribe\" is finally heard, which then fades noisily into an ElP remix of Ranelin's \"Black Destiny\". The mix is varied and unpredictable but it still flows. Herren is on it. Which tells me that John Hughes III knew what he was doing when he got that CDR demo from somebody calling himself Savath + Savalas all those years ago.  "}