{"label":" Suicide Squeeze","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8989/homepage_large.d0e5190a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Suicide Squeeze Records: Slaying Since 1996","text":"  By the time David Dickenson founded Seattlebased Suicide Squeeze Records in 1996, grunge's imperial reign had ended. But the bands that sprang up in its wake still bore its most latent characteristics, however mutated. 764HERO's \"Now You're Swimming\", the label's first release, made a perfect example: It featured less fuzzboxstomping than most grunge singles, but the quiet verse/loud chorus dynamic remained intact. There was also a similar sense of fury and futility, though the emoting was limited to more personal, if not outright confessional, territory. Ten years after that 7\" single, the label has cultivated a diverse roster of acts that might not have much in common musically, but all preserve a \"punk rock soul.\" It's clear that when Suicide Squeeze uses a term like \"punk,\" it means it in the same way Kurt Cobain did: as an ethos of honesty and authenticity, not a unifying sonic aesthetic. But while the label's releases have always embodied that sensibility, the music on the commemorative 2xCD Suicide Squeeze Records: Slaying Since 1996 somehow fails to pack much punch. The collection's first disc charts a chronology of the label's releases, beginning with that first 764HERO single and ending with \"Rock Weird (Weird Rock)\", a throwaway addition from last year's puzzling Goon Moon collaboration. Peppered with outofprint material and weighed down by some weak inclusions, these 20 selections still boast some predictable winners. The fragmentary \"A Life of Arctic Sounds\" is hardly one of Modest Mouse's best songs, but it reminds just how amazingly visceral and rabid the band was in its early days. Elliott Smith's \"Division Day\" from 1997 sounds incredibly quaint in comparison to the lush arrangements of his later output, but the skinandbones production lets the strength of such a singsong melody speak for itself. And \"2014\", from the Unicorns' swansong single, is one of the band's quirkiest compositions (which is saying a whole lot), moving from apocalyptic synthpop to flatout rocker in less than four minutes.  The second disc of Slaying Since 1996 is appropriately devoted to the present. With previously unreleased tracks from the likes of Earlimart, Headphones, and Crystal Skulls, it's more consistent than the first disc. Of Montreal's \"Voltaic Crusher/Undrum to the Muted Da\", which finds Kevin Barnes pleading \"Please, please, please, God don't be a bastard,\" is typical of the band's oeuvre of bubbly nonsensical pop. But \"Voices\", a Bside taken from a recent Black Mountain seveninch, is the second disc's highpoint. In yet another of Stephen McBean's paeans to the redemptive capacity of rock music, Black Mountain blend Velvetsy guitar, a leaden bassline, and Mellotron to create something far lighter and breezier than anything on last year's selftitled debut.  While Slaying Since 1996 obviously succeeds in practical terms (yes, it provides an overview of the first 10 years of Suicide Squeeze's output), it suffers from inconsistency. It's the inescapable curse of any compilation: You can't please everyone all the time. But, in spite of that understandable shortcoming, there are several gems many outofprint or previously unreleased to be mined here.  "}