{"label":" Gangsta Grillz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8990/homepage_large.210377a7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Peter Macia","artist":"Lil Wayne / DJ Drama","title":"Dedication 2","text":"  The cover of Dedication 2 shows Lil Wayne, eyes closed, the words \"Fear God\" inked on his lids. Take it as a particularly gruesome example of the repentant gangster cliché, or, considering Wayne christens himself \"The God\" just minutes into this mixtape, a blasphemous warning. Selfdeification is nothing new in hiphop, but whether Rakim Allah's humble expression or Jayhova's hyperbolic swagger it tends to be a New York thing. So New Orleans' Lil' Wayne not only proclaiming god status but \"best rapper alive\" instead of merely \"King of the South\" is significant both for his rebuke of the prevalent trapperbeforerapper conceit of his Southern peers and his direct challenge to the NYC lyrical throne. Just a few years ago, Wayne making these claims would have been laughable, but with each significant release, he's proving himself to be the most imminent eminence post JayZ. In his praise of Wayne's performance on \"The Tonight Show\" earlier this year, Pitchfork's Nick Sylvester wrote, \"it's one of those blackandwhitetotechnicolor moments after which, if you still don't believe in Wayne, you're just lying to yourself\"; Dedication 2 is the aural equivalent. More than anything Wayne's done, it's evidence of his virtuosity as a rapper and MC, showman and lyricist. Tha Carter II was one of last year's best hiphop albums, but its clean lines hemmed Wayne. He crafted too much, measured his movements instead of letting fly, as he does here.The track that will convert most naysayers, \"Georgia Bush\", borrows the instrumental from Disturbing Tha Peace's staterepping anthem; Wayne adds one word to the hook and transforms the hoedown into a stinging protest. But, never one to eschew form for function, he mocks the styles of the original song's participants, Ludacris and Field Mob. It is, at once, a vicious uppercut at the U.S. president, the media, New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin, racism, neglect, an embrace of his city and its populace, and a fearsome display of skill and intelligence. \"So what happened to the levees/ Why wasn't they steady?/ Why wasn't they able to control this?/ I know some folk that live by the levee that keep on tellin' me they heard some explosions/ Same shit happened back with Hurricane Betsy 1965/ I ain't too young to know this/ That was President Johnson/ This is President [Georgia] Bush,\" Wayne raps in breathless doubletime, folding history, conspiracy, anger, and confusion over each other with style and venom.  Does this one song, at the end of a mixtape, justify the sex, drugs, and violence of nearly every other? It doesn't mean to. It only makes the thoughts, emotions, and motivations behind his more objectionable lyrics more explicit and literal, but it's not as if the same conclusions cannot be drawn from his other material. Wayne is no fool; he's built a mountainous persona of myth and some truth and coerces the listener to burrow into it through the tiny holes he's left in the façade. Whether you choose to dig is up to you, but Wayne is just beginning his ascent. He is 23 years old, 11 years in, and working on a level most need more time to reach. His confidence and charisma overwhelms, and on this mixtape he's doing more than wresting beats from contemporaries he's invading their songs and conquering their styles and cadences. Rick Ross, Dem Franchize Boyz, Three 6 Mafia: Wayne's merciless, claiming Southern anthems for himself and spitting Northern verses over them.  For his part, DJ Drama provides another example of why he's killing the mixtape game right now. Whether he's putting Pharrell over WuTang or Little Brother over Pharrell, Drama is a magician. What might look like a dullard's handful from the top 10 is actually a platform for Wayne and a notable departure from the first Dedication's East Coast larceny and Tha Carter II's ambiguous production. \"Poppin' My Collar\", \"What You Know\", \"Kryptonite,\"\"Hustlin'\", and \"I Think They Like Me\" all get the royal treatment, and it's exhilarating to hear Wayne bring his best to these regionalgonenational hits. Much has been made of Lil' Wayne's growth from album to mixtape to album and so forth, and Dedication 2 is no exception. He seems more ambitious, and more capable of fulfilling ambitions with every release. Wayne clearly believes he's the \"best rapper alive.\" What remains to be seen is whether he can convince the rest of us. "}