{"label":" Jagjaguwar / Brah","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/8994/homepage_large.0edc23be.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Oneida","title":"Happy New Year","text":"  A funny thing happened on the way from The Wedding: Oneida's triumphant 2005 release was ridiculously slepton, the band's studio space was razed to make room for condos, and rumored plans for a sprawling threedisc followup called Thank Your Parents ended up as a measly 11 tracks. Tough year. But while the band is throwing up drywall at a new recording space, Happy New Year reflects the mixed blessings and emotions and makes the most of them. Critics love to reach for multiple hyphens and obscure garage acts to namedrop when summing up Oneida's sound. Happy New Year lives up to both the band's own crossgenre daring and the critics' idea of Oneida more than any of their previous albums; accordingly, it's all over the place. Opener \"Distress\", a formless sketch of medieval choirlike vocals and toneless instrumental gurgling, could be another band entirely. \"Happy New Year\" is, if there's such a thing, Oneidabynumbers, as a midtempo distorted organ tears through the fabric of the song while guitars jangle and wail around the corners. Singer Fat Bobby's plaintive lament anchors it all, moving from psychedelic phrases to concrete urban details of cups of coffee and bus rides home, all leading to a decision not to decide anything: \"The sun withheld its light from me/ I said a prayer, a 'We shall see.'\" \"The Adversary\" picks up the pace, spinning upwards on its deep and steady groove like a tiltawhirl broken free from its hinges, with a simple but glorious threechord release. But it lifts listeners higher just so \"Up With People\" can pull them down towards hell: With nearly eight minutes of disco drums and grinding, percussive, filthy guitar and organ, it's one of Oneida's closest calls to recreating their live sound. Predictably, it's also a monster and the highlight of the record.  The pinball plink of \"History's Great Navigators\" similarly stretches and comes close to that delirious peak, and closer \"Happy New Year\" weaves druggily to the album's finale on a twofinger piano part and halfspeed drums one of the band's most successful mood pieces. The rest of Happy New Year's second half, however, is heavy with melancholy and contains some pretty safe moves for such an adventurous band. \"Busy Little Bee\" buzzes with Eastern scales and humming drones, a pleasant but obvious psychedelic nod; same with the militant rhythm and droning vocals of \"You Never Can Tell\". \"Reckoning\" is a huge surprise just for being so gentle and earnest in its acoustic softrock update.  \"Chameleon\" artists get a lot of love, but that's often because we can find the thread that holds them together there's always some indelible section of their personalities that binds their eclecticism and makes each track distinctively theirs. But while Oneida is indisputably versatile and has cred for miles, perpetually tearing their way through disparate styles in sweaty dives across the globe, there's no unifying principal here just songs that are kinda psychedelic, kinda grooveoriented, and kinda long. While not exactly a disappointment, Happy New Year is a whole lot of \"kinda,\" a record built around hesitancy that clutches the payoff tight in its arms.  "}