{"label":" Matador","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/8996/homepage_large.00976298.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Brightblack Morning Light","title":"Brightblack Morning Light","text":"  Despite sylvan genuflections and hippy naturalism, the shaggy Alabamaborn, Northern Californiabased core of Brightblack Morning Light are surprisingly redolent of Royal Trux. It's partially the Neil Hagerty and Jennifer Herrema thrift style, tight \"best friend\" relationship, and the harmonizing between guitartoting Nathan \"Nabob\" Shineywater and Rhodesmassaging Rachel \"Rabob\" Hughes. But also take stock of the slowmo blues, languid guitarscapes, and druggy atmospherics: Instead of smack, it's peyote, and a scrubby squat's been replaced by a tent beneath the stars. The obvious nonTrux dealbreaker? Brightblack supports sundry environmental causes, including Friends of the Eel. Nope, can't imagine Twin Infinitives' ma and pa getting too into that. The comparison's stretched so I can make a point: Despite the Quiet Quiet Ocean Spell festivals Brightblack curates and the Joanna Newsom and Devendra entries in their handsewn address book, the troupe's doing something very different than what's been shoved under the \"freak folk\" family tree. As in many cases, it's pretty obvious they're linked due to hair length and back story the hohum tangentials. Textually, Shineywater and Hughes' hobo dispatches border on farce. For instance, a letter accompanying the press release notes: \"Our mixed blood holds some American Indian somewhere, but we have no reservation to live.\" When I was a kid, my father signed me up for this group called Indian Guides, which featured suburban fathers and sons pretending to go back to nature on the weekends. I haven't traced their blood lines, but somehow that sorta fauxpoetic hokum stinks of that same \"goingnative\" vibe. The lyrics feature some pretty images, but are basically tossed off variations on rainbows, rain, crystals, smoke, and rivers. Thankfully, on Brightblack Morning Light's excellent second fulllength, their first for Matador, it hardly matters what the band's saying. (There's a reason Slint invited them to play at All Tomorrow's Parties and Rachel Grimes of the Rachel's helps them out.) Prior to this collection, they released the Paul Oldhamproduced 2004 debut, Ala.Cali.Tucky and a 2002 split 7\" with Bonnie Prince Billy as Rainywood, none of which could have prepared us for the absolute depth of sound smeared across these 10 tracks. It's all fleshedout gorgeously by a cast of characters that includes Gojogo percussionist Elias Reitz, White Magic's Andy Macleod, exZwan and A Perfect Circle bassist Paz Lenchantin (also a touring member for postRoyal Trux crew, RTX see, my musings aren't so hairbrained), and magical vocal harmonizers Gail West and Ann McCrary, among others. The most spectacular ingredients? R&B style flute, trombone, and clarinet. Big ups there. The pinecone orchestra's recorded wonderfully by Thom Monahan, the exMonsterland rocker and Pernice Brother who also turned knobs for Cripple Crow. And like on certain albums by preKinks Lilys or My Bloody Valentine, a single level's maintained for the duration. The word \"Hypnotic\"'s overused, but the band's spatial knowhow and rigorously muted flourishes are more than deserving of the accolade. It's welldeep, blossoming ambiance. The repetitions feel like minimalism, but it unfurls like the sleepiest loner psych.  With swirling Rhodes and windwraith vocals, opener \"Everybody Daylight\" is halffrozen rock that catches heat with a warm rhythmandblues ground cover. Percussion is a major ingredient of each track. Here, conga, acorn glave, and drywall trap kit are embellished with flute and gemstone guitars. These campfire songs will make you contort your face like Mick Jagger and nod your head in slow motion. The sound's so bottomless, when a flute starts up, it sounds like it's echoing from 12 trees deep into a grotto.  Those exquisite repetitions curl into \"Friend of Time\", which feels like a harvest moon, seed capsules, and gourds shaking out textural beats. Cymbals catch air like a waterfall and a trombone moves over the looping, lapping backdrop and the male/female vocals. The brief, more upbeat instrumental \"Fry Bread\" shifts the pace a tad, before opening up to the most shimmering evidence of the band's compositional brilliance, the 10minute \"Star Blanket River Child\". Hashier vocals and louder percussion stamp \"Black Feather Wishes Rise\"; \"A River Could Be Loved\", dedicated to those eel folks, showcases a strippeddown, pianodriven, guitarfree sound.  The first few weeks I listened to Brightblack Morning Light, I was working on a longish project: It nestled into the background like one perfect, melancholic deepwoods quilt. Listening more closely, the lullabies keep showing new angles while getting livelier and livelier. That sort of compositional ruggedness is a treat: Brightblack Morning Light offers a clearcut differentiation between runofthemill indierock bar bands hiding out in folksy wardrobes and those doing something nuanced and complex. Hell, not even a song called \"We Share Our Blanket With the Owl\" could fuck up this shapeshifting slumber party.  "}