{"label":" Tigerbeat6","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9007/homepage_large.245dabd8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Kid606","title":"Pretty Girls Make Raves EP","text":"  There hasn't been much in Kid606's circuitous recording career that would suggest he'd have any interest in making a record like Pretty Girls Make Raves, which is likely the very reason that he has now decided to do so. The Kid (aka Miguel Depedro) has always been most readily defined by his stubborn refusal to be pigeonholed, even when it has come at the expense of a coherent and navigable discography. True to form, Pretty Girls Make Raves bears almost no relation to Depedro's impressionistic 2005 album Resilience, just as it is also unrecognizably distant from both the splintered breakbeat extremism of his early years and his periodic hearttugging ambient interludes. Instead, Pretty Girls is a blunt instrument of gritty analog techno, on which Depedro displays an uncharacteristic degree of restraint and focus to craft some of his burliest, nononsense Tigerbeat6 productions yet. Evidently the weak pun of the album's title is meant to be taken at face value, as the music here makes no direct reference to either the band Pretty Girls Make Graves or the Smiths' song for which we should be grateful. Though it's billed as a tribute to Baltimore club and bassheavy techno, as with many of Kid606's releases the album courses with sneering punk energy all captured with the grainy B&W imprecision of a Xeroxed concert flyer stapled to a lightpost. As such, it doesn't take much to imagine the sturdy, reductive nearriffs of tracks like \"Meet Me at the Bottom\" or \"Comeuppance\" transposed from the Kid's vintage electronic gear to traditional posthardcore guitar structures. Throughout the album, Kid606 makes minimal use of samples and hairpin edits, at least by the manic standards of his previous work. Here he shows patience, allowing his dense, thickbottomed beats the space to expand and develop before jumping to the next idea, a practice that increases the monumental impact of each additional new sonic element. The locomotive opener \"Let It Rock\" is punctuated by pepsquad yells and deformed squeals that sound like an airliner's faulty landing gear, while \"Get Down Low\" builds its curious forward momentum via lurching steampress rhythms. Simplest and most effective of all might be the harddriving \"Chicken Fight\", a bleary, gimmickfree scorcher that doesn't allow its reverence for classic Jeff Mills/Laurent Garnier techno to sidestep or overwhelm its ruthless bodymoving utility.  With an attack this rudimentary, however, Kid606 has left himself little room for any missteps. Adornments like the distorted, DFAfriendly vocals on \"Meet Me at the Bottom\" or \"T.Y.T.R.\" seem rather inconsequential, as Depedro takes easy lyrical potshots at exgirlfriends and fauxhipsters with what sounds like Velcro taped over his mouth. And as with much of his recent music, Pretty Girls Make Raves only makes genuine sense when considered as an adjunct to Kid606's existing body of work, seeming to be another display of agile versatility rather than raw invention. Despite the album's massive and satisfying ephemeral force, as the lights come up and the floor empties out listeners may be left to wonder yet again where exactly Kid606's diffuse trail is leading and how we'll recognize him once we get there.  "}