{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9013/homepage_large.389e2d36.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The Cairo Gang","title":"The Cairo Gang","text":" While there's nothing new about the Cairo Gang's debut fulllength, none of it sounds canned or dated either. How do they make oftcited influences sound fresh? Long answer: The Cairo Gang take the instrumentation of gentle British 70's folk with the freeform composition and detached, beardstroking vibe of postrock, all executed with the fidelity and humility of homespun indie rock. Short answer: The Cairo Gang cuts across musical movements of several years' span to create music sounding distinctly out of time. \"Warning\" is an early highlight and as good a mission statement as any, layering plucked acoustic chords and breathless woodwinds over undulating bass and shaker percussion. But soon after that, the pretty backwardran tones of \"A Hammer for the Temple\" dissolves after barely a minute into the feedbackladen \"Assholes\", burrowing through eardrums for three times as long. Guitarist Emmett Kelly has accompanied several other artists such as Beth Orton and Edith Frost as a supposed wunderkind, but the record is free of showoffy virtuosity or flash. Kelly's talents lie in his intuition, and that's a big part of why the jarring shifts between songs don't sound forced, just restless. Some of it was drawn from material Kelly worked on by himself, explaining the often homerecorded feel, though he drafted more musicians and completed recording in at least three other cities before finishing this diverse whole. Certainly, \"So it Goes\" couldn't roll its lurching, lopsided rhythm without a rhythm section, nor would \"Mother Earth\" drop the placid tension of its solo acoustic first half for the fullband sigh of the finale, the closest thing the album has to a lightersup anthem. Still, most of it doesn't sound much like \"Assholes\", just drifting folk recorded in a mellow mood. Tracks like \"Me and You\" occasionally bring a aftertaste of guilt with the rush of nostalgia if you've got a Nick Drake album, you've heard these sounds before. While gentle acoustic numbers dominate, \"Shiloutte\" and \"Funnel Cloud\" are strong reminders of Sonic Youth's jangle, and the album on the whole reflects the kind of grabbag aesthetic of a Bee Thousand. Of course, The Cairo Gang can't be measured up to those monoliths it's too much like a wellearmarked sketchbook, though it's as rewarding as leafing through the unfinished sketches of a really talented friend. It's a rare example of song fragments adding up to something more than the sum of their parts.  "}