{"label":" EastWest","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9014/homepage_large.5e89e31e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Murder by Death","title":"In Bocca al Lupo","text":"  Wearing the black and dusty cloak of the worldweary and oldblooded is an authenticity trick as old as the blues just ask Johnny Cash. Or Bob Dylan, who let Columbia claim his trainhopping, fightin'fornickles hobo routine as the god's honest truth, the lifegiving seeds of an Authentic American Musician. Telling stories is what great artists do; the best of them even cover their tracks a bit while they do it so, you know, we can believe ‘em some. Not so with Murder by Death, who sound an awful lot like the college boys and girls they presumably were not so long ago, rocking university parties with their rollickin' drinking songs and olderthanouryears schtick. Comprised of equal parts vaudeville dramatics, oneeyed orchestral slashes, and polka also known as Cash, pirates, and Tom Waits they've named their newest In Bocca Al Lupo. Why? Italian students, on the eve of exams, trade that phrase (\"In the Mouth of the Wolf\") for the equally bathetic reply: \"Kill the Wolf\". Would they, the four Murder By Deaths, make us believe they had even seen a wolf, let alone slaughtered one to ace Biology, they'd have a better record. There is, presumably, no one among us who wouldn't trade our lives for that of a pirate, a Romanian gambler, or a spot in the Star Wars cantina, so it's difficult to fault Murder by Death for subject matter. And once, in a vast German beer hall, I caught a traditional German Folk Act, piping and footstomping their way through John Denver's \"Country Roads\", an experience I thought I'd never have again until In Bocca Al Lupo, anyway, which captures both the inaforeignandstrangeland bit and the fact the music's origins are, like Mr. Denver, as mundane as it gets back home in Philadelphia or wherever you're from.  Some of you will be better escapists than I am, and In Bocca for you will then be exactly as good as your imagination. \"Boy Decide\", on which Adam Turla's vocals swirl up over Sarah Balliet's gruff bass and a polka lurch \"Some men crave women/ And some men crave gold/ Some folks die too young/And some die too old\" could be life and death, if you could screw up the audacity to believe the platitudes. And \"Dead Men and Sinners\", a Waits pirate ballad bulked up by the sound of glass mugs clinking, floorpounding, and a chorus of drunk men doubling every word, will surely be the soundtrack to someone's Pirates of the Caribbean Halloween ensemble come October. I like \"Brother\", which goes, \"I know there's better brothers/ But you're the only one that's mine,\" because this sentiment kinda describes my friends, a little bit anyway; next time we rumble or whatever, I'll make sure to bring the boombox.  As technicians, MBD cannot be faulted, whether on the slow thump and plucked strings, hand claps, and a cappella choruses on \"Dynamite Mine\" or the languorous vocal and implacable drums of \"Raw Deal\", which is one of the few songs here that actually sounds like they wrote it. And should you lack for drama in your daytoday well, they've got some for you right here.  "}