{"label":" Ace Fu / GSL","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9016/homepage_large.89009fa4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"An Albatross","title":"Blessphemy (of the Peace-Beast Feastgiver and the Bear-Warp Kumite)","text":" \"Everything that can be invented has been invented,\" once said the U.S. Office of Patents Commissioner in 1899. I'm not going to make a similar myopic mistake, but when it comes to this hyperbolic spazmetal stuff, nothing's too new or shocking. Ever since GWAR started appearing on Jerry Springer and Fantomas followed an album containing one 70some minute song with another whose tracks averaged less than 90 seconds apiece, the oddities of bands like Philadelphia's An Albatross seem downright funny, more selfimportantly ritualistic than artistic. By \"funny\" I mean no disrespect especially since An Albatross boast an irrefutably amazing live reputation but throwing sushi on fans or whatever just doesn't translate to Blessphemy, their second album. Frontman Edward B. Geida III, for all his stage antics, sounds completely flattened on wax, his shrill gremlin yelps easily mistaken for feedback or some other unwanted noise. Essentially an instrumental band, their pithy songs show off some ideas, though continually feel obliged to return to one of two default settings highminded organ prog and breakneck thrashcore. Predictably, there's a tension between lofty technical proficiency and the occasional catchy hook. \"Sacred Geometry\", the album's most pleasantly surprising track, flaunts a mutant disco bassline that improbably complements the band's signature organ atmospherics. Seemingly taking cues from Hella a band who, like An Albatross now, initially succumbed to spazcore tropes before embracing their innerNES sensibilities this song and brief snippets such as the menacing stage boss theme of \"Hairobics\" offer Nintendocore as a viable solution for spaz monotony.  Unfortunately, this option's underutilized, the band instead deploying fallonyourface riffs that hang as garishly around the neck as their namesake bird. Unlike, say, System of a Down, where hummable vox thread together rhythmically unstable onslaughts like these, Geida pretty much leaves his band out to dry. For brief periods, \"Tossin' and Turnin' All Night\" glides smooth on classic rock riffs, shit grin on face, upperlip stiffened, only to disintegrate into violently pulsating mush. I can understand the cock rock anxieties these devout spaz's must feel (especially when they're one prolonged organ chord away from aping the Doors), but with little to latch onto here, it looks like you'll feel the full Blessphemy when this traveling circus arrives in your town.  "}