{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9023/homepage_large.4b47ce89.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Sam Roberts","title":"Chemical City","text":"  For the uninitiated, some superficial info: Sam Roberts is a Canadian hockey playerturnedmusician who debuted with an EP in 2002. Universal snagged him for his first fulllength a year later, on which he fleshed out his rootsy guitarrock sound. While perusing his Web site, I stumbled across two unrelated items that go a long way to accurately describe his band's music. First, the pictures of the five musicians that make up the Sam Roberts band reveal each one to be shaggily haired and scruffily unshaven, dressed in jeans and tshirts or thriftstorestyle button ups. Secondly, the lead guitarist's last name is Nugent. Ok, so maybe Sam Roberts' music isn't as rooted in guitarwankeryasforeplay as that other Nugent's is, but there's still something decidedly classic rock about the songs on Chemical City, his sophomore album. But these songs are laid back, likely to appeal to your pookashellnecklacewearing frat pals as well as that cool uncle you've got who's stoned all the time. Though no doubt coming from similar influences, Roberts isn't flirting with arena rock like many of his bringin'backtherock contemporaries. His approach is more stripped down, grounded in the singer/songwriter genre. It's like southernfried roots rock that's yet to be southernfried, or the Canadian version of Americana, now with twice the rock and half the country. The disc flops back and forth between distortedguitar pop songs and acousticbased jam rockers. Tracks like \"With a Bullet\", \"The Resistance\", and the discopening \"The Gate\", lay catchy, singalong choruses over upbeat, driving rhythms. Flourishes of organ add a nostalgic touch, helping to bridge the classic rock of the 1970s with Roberts' modern style. A touch of psychedelia helps give the songs a unique voice, and nowhere is this more apparent than on the eightminutelong \"Mind Flood\". The track starts off unassumingly enough, but after fiveandahalf minutes or so, the vocals drop out, and the guitars swirl and echo while the organ drones in the background. Even the bass is distorted, adding another layer of fuzzy noise as each instrument does its own thing. In fact, the song's effect is doubleedged, because it's good enough to make the rest of the album suffer a little in comparison.  The softer tracks are all pretty runofthemill. \"Uprising Down Under\" is a schmaltzy ballad, complete with swelling strings in the background and tambourine accents. \"Mystified, Heavy\" handles the acoustic guitars a little better, using the strumming of the strings to create a sort of rhythm that shuffles along with the drums. The disc's final track, \"A Stone Would Cry Out\", is also its most minimal, relying solely on piano and voice. It comes off as more sincere than the album's other ballads, but it still lacks the crackling warmth of the upbeat tracks. Ultimately the ballads do more to weigh the album down than lift it up, but Chemical City still has plenty to offer for fans of oldfashioned rock. "}