{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9027/homepage_large.84b59b52.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rough Trade Shops: Singer Songwriter 1","text":"  The crew at London's highlyesteemed Rough Trade record shops have spent the past few years moonlighting as pop cultural archivists, releasing compilations that have ambitiously documented various genres like postpunk, electronica, country, and indie pop. So in a sense their latest collection Rough Trade Shops: SingerSongwriter 01 seems to be just a tidy bit of housekeeping, gathering tracks from those stray artists Cat Power, Antony and the Johnsons, Mountain Goats whose work hasn't fit precisely into any one specific genre. Containing a whopping 39 tracks on its two discs, the set would also appear to be a perfect opportunity for Rough Trade to reflect the evershifting possibilities of songwriting, particularly at a time when recording technology can easily blur the distinction between songwriting and production, arranging and/or improvisation. Despite appearances by such iconoclastic performers as Tom Waits, PJ Harvey, and Nick Cave, however, listening to SingerSongwriter 01 can be a shockingly tiresome affair. Displaying an uncharacteristic degree of caution, Rough Trade's curators have employed a definition of the term \"singersongwriter\" that's conservative enough to mollify even the most timid radio programmer. The performers assembled here are uniformly white, Englishspeaking, and roughly 75% male. In nearly every case, each singer is accompanied only by a solo guitar or piano, or else by a small, unobtrusive backing group. Moreover, few of these performers betray any interest whatsoever in testing the boundaries of their songcraft, as virtually every track falls back upon standardissue folk/country/rockbased construction. As a result, Rough Trade have taken what might have been their most farreaching, instructive collection and instead made it their most rigid and monotonous. Yet whatever disagreement one might have with Rough Trade's selection process, there is no denying that SingerSongwriter 01 contains several masterful performances. (And no doubt clearing some pesky licensing hurdles in the process.) Nearessential tracks like Elliott Smith's harrowing \"Needle in the Hay\" or Daniel Johnston's ubiquitous \"Speeding Motorcycle\" mix nicely with underrated sleepers like Barbara Manning's \"Scissors\" and Adrian Crowley's gorgeous \"The Girl From the Estuary\". A typically arresting demo version of PJ Harvey's \"Dress\" is one of the set's relative rarities, while Tom Waits' jazzy \"Little Boy Blue\" is taken from his littleheralded soundtrack for Francis Ford Coppola's One From the Heart.  The collection also showcases underappreciated British eccentrics such as Robert Wyatt, Richard Thompson, and Bevis Frond's Nick Saloman. Wyatt's \"Blues in Bob Minor\" is a bizarre rewrite of Dylan's \"Subterranean Homesick Blues\" that provides the album with a muchneeded dose of humor. And though tracks like Thompson's storyboarded \"1952 Vincent Black Lightning\" and Saloman's exquisite \"Waving\" draw from their creators' more traditionalist sides, both tracks do provide an ample indication of each musician's prodigious versatility and imagination.  It should go without saying that most multiartist compilations are inconsistent by their very nature, but SingerSongwriter 01 becomes bogged down in its second act by its earnumbing consistency. Lukewarm tracks by performers like Mark Mulcahy, Matthew Hattie Hein, Charlie Parr, Jeffrey Lewis, and King Creosote file past anonymously. Amidst this uninspiring crowd, distinctive vocalists like Vic Chesnutt and Antony Hegarty tower like giants, and even such quirky, acquiredtaste artists as Victoria Williams and Diane Cluck can here seem like a burst of clean oxygen injected into a stale, smokefilled coffeehouse.  Perhaps most surprising and dismaying of all, however, is the collection's noticeable shortage of memorable lyrics. The presence of such noted wordsmiths as Waits and Cave notwithstanding, many of these songs make their entrance and exit without leaving behind any snappy quotables or any particularly vital thematic impressions. Textcentric tracks from verbose songwriters Franklin Bruno and Simon Joyner do their best to balance quantity with quality, but only Conor Oberst, on Bright Eyes' unhinged \"The Calendar Hung Itself\" attempts to match his frenetic wordstream with an equally dynamic instrumental backdrop.  Ultimately, though, the compilation's general lack of inventive wordplay only serves to underscore the restrictive nature of Rough Trade's song selection. Even if one is to accept the dubious premise that all hiphop is automatically disqualified from consideration, since its vocalists are technically rappers instead of singers, it's not difficult to think of countless international singersongwriters working the further reaches of electronica, avantfolk, samba, electropop, experimental noiserock, etc. whose inclusion here would've made this compilation much more comprehensive and considerably more fun to listen to.  "}