{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9030/homepage_large.016a937b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"The Longcut","title":"A Call and Response","text":" In any song as repetitive and anxietycharged as the Longcut's \"A Last Act of Desperate Men\", musicians must fight the urge to go absolutely fucking ballistic, which behavior would negate the repetition's effect and ground the anxiety's charge. England's the Longcut restrain themselves through most of seven unbearably tense minutes on their debut Call and Response's colossal opener. Then they go ballistic. Before I let you get the wrong idea, we're not talking a quietquietblowthefuckup band like Mogwai, whose phlegmatic compositions often lack any energy to bother trying to contain. Even in their songs' quietest moments, the Longcut bubble with so much adrenaline they barely keep their lid. Lidded adrenaline is kinda the whole point. \"A Last Act of Desperate Men\" plays like its title. The drummer taps his bass drum like a kid who has to pee really badly ergo can't keep his leg still, but he (the drummer) somehow manages to keep his volume down low where it needs to be. Guitars are more resigned than restrained. A melodically busy, wobblykneed bassline completes the archetypal lofi array. Bands like Oxford Collapse and Figurines apply a similar aesthetic to catchy, overcaffeinated indie punk. But the Longcut are a more fastidious bunch. They pile on crinklyedged movie strings and chilly industrial drum machine. More importantly, they nail dynamics as only bands who've sweat buckets together can.  Those dynamics, strong throughout Call and Response, are part of a larger theme: Songs that can only be performed one way, aka The Right Way. Each track even the weaker, less melodic, notengaging stuff wears countless hours of toil. Whereas for Ricardo Villalobos applying elbow grease might mean digitally micromanaging each note with a pastry chef's precision, the details the Longcut struggle over are more felt than heard, the band's toolsathand simpler and less predictable. Unburdened by conventional 8bar rock song symmetry, \"Transition\" builds and builds, surging forward with fuzz bass, trashcan garage drums, and sparkling guitars. But the song doesn't dick you along for the heck of it, like an Explosions in the Sky plodder might; rather, it offers an exhilarating snapshot of a young trio getting its yaya's out.  There's some boring shit here, no doubt, not to mention some oppressively bleak songs like \"Lonesome No More!\". It's not that the Longcut deal specifically in gritty subject matter or somber ballads, but their music evokes these grim landscapes, the kind that look way worse from the inside, like bored suburban kid's block or old cashier lady's supermarket or this band's Manchester. Still I wouldn't call them depressed. Depressed bands sit around waiting for stuff to happen; The Longcut rush to accomplish everything before it's too late, often just sounding like their work is grim business. \"The Kiss Off\" goes for a trancey, somberly meditative effect, layering threnodic \"hyoooooooo\"s over a dull riff and a triphop bassline before exploding (volumewise) in a way that's somehow both perfunctory and painfully deliberate. We can talk dealbreakers: Lee Gale's vocals channel firstdecade Sonic Youth his performance on \"A Last Act of Desperate Men\" has that same disembodied, floatingintheether quality as Lee Ranaldo's spoken word seances on Daydream Nation which works for me but won't for everybody.  The album softens a bit in its waning minutes, closing with a pair of tracks built around drum machine and shimmering, outcomesthesun guitar swells. \"Vitamin C\" and \"Spires\" identify more closely with Norfolk techno whiz kid Nathan Fake's cool catharsis than SY's frigid Reaganera stuff. Neither is a great song but together they constitute a salient reminder about the ambitious, energetic, and frequently irresolute music this band makes: Chemistry is hard to pin down it doesn't have a pitch or a tempo or a timbre but the Longcut's is present in Call and Response's every molecule.  "}