{"label":" Alien8","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9036/homepage_large.9919dfba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Think About Life","title":"Think About Life","text":"  Over the course of its recent boom, the Montreal music scene has become largely known for southwardly exporting music of an epic nature: the endless crescendos of Godspeed You Black Emperor!, the choral firepower of The Arcade Fire, the readymade anthems of Wolf Parade. Yet the underground to this underground is filled with bands decidedly less grandiose in their intentions: spastic pop purveyors like The Unicorns (and, subsequently, Islands) or crassclowns like AIDS Wolf. As a category, these groups are less uniquely Quebecois, easily lumpable into a wider CanAmerican trend of indie party bands that pair lofi art student aspirations with costumed live shows that deliberately descend into drunken mayhem. With their notebookdoodle artwork and heehaw pseudonyms, Think About Life appear, on the surface, easily pigeonholed into this movement, doomed to a life of basement shows and being the wacky opening act. But perhaps sharing a city with the stately, deadserious bands that have made Montreal sceneprofileworthy has had an osmotic effect on the trio, allowing the occasional glimpse of intriguing musical texture to sneak in between the synthesizer romps and hyperactive vocals. Think About Life love the sound of a long, loud keyboard drone many of these synth parts are about as active as a cat falling asleep on the Moog. When paired with frenetic mixtures of live and looped percussion or frosted with additional keyboard squiggles, as on opener \"Paul Cries\" or the hihat crazy \"Serious Chords\", the held tones add surprising depth and volume to the band's slapdash style and sparse instrumentation. In other places, like \"Fireworks\" or the interminable \"Money\", the sound can be an irritant, and slow church organ arpeggios and routine drumming fail to take the edge off abrasively bad horn solos and microphone abuse.  Those vocals are frequently the fifth column of Think About Life's attempts to build a unique pop sound, too eagerly descending into goofy falsetto shrieks or bellowing offkey WOAHOHOH backing parts. These leanings toward fullband participation likely work better in their hyperenergetic live show, but on record the constant clowning clumsily sabotages moments of potential prettiness, like the pocketLoveless peak at the end of \"Fireworks\". The album's dalliance with hiphop (\"What the Future Might Be\", with Los Angeles MC Subtitle) corrects these vocal shortcomings somewhat, but culminates in a cheesedup chorus that steers the song towards Linkin Park territory.  I'm certainly not so joyless as to advocate that all music should be austere and epicminded, but the partying priorities of Think About Life undercut their debut album. The elements presumably critical to their rockthehouse live performances the giddy vocals, the toybox instruments are little more than obfuscations in a recorded setting, disguising some real musical talent lurking beneath the goofy exterior, maybe even a Canadian TV on the Radio waiting to get out. For all I know, Think About Life's inability to remain serious may be a refreshing breath of fresh air amongst their visionary citymates, but catching a little more of their contagious pomposity would sharpen their approach.  "}