{"label":" Fabric","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/91/homepage_large.82f770f2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Scott Plagenhoef","artist":"Akufen","title":"Fabric 17","text":" The latest installment in London club Fabric's mix series, Fabric 17, is one of its best, which might come as a surprise considering that unlike the label's other recent successes it was compiled and mixed not by an internationally reknowned DJ such as Jacques Lu Cont or Michael Mayer but by Akufen (Marc Leclair). Which isn't to say that the Quebecois doesn't have the acumen or skill to present a seamless and engaging mix the record proves that he most certainly does Leclair just hadn't yet displayed that element of his talents. An accomplished producer, he is still best known for his debut LP My Way and his process of microsampling, taking small snippets of FM radio, white noise, and other sounds and pulling them together into a coherent whole. Curiously, the spirit of Akufen's hallmark style permeates Fabric 17. As he does with the sonic detritus with which he normally works, Leclair employs only what he needs from the tracks he's selected, shaving off all but only 90 only seconds of some, allowing others to run nearly their full lengths, and doing some good ol' fashioned mixing when it suits him most notably on an opening section that blends Philippe Cam's \"LFO Drive\" and the Pantytec remix of Matthew Dear's \"Dog Days\". This inspired pairing kicks off a nearly perfect seventrack section of some of the choicest tracks in recent leftfield techno, highlighted by Pantytec's own \"Alabaster\" and The Rip Off Artist's \"Little Tiny Eight Inch Jack\". Akufen favors tracks that mirror the best of his own productions abstract techno and techhouse that uses its more glitchy elements as elastic funk rather than simply as synapsetriggering pops and buzzes. The mix skips and bounds, twists and whirls rather than works itself into a propulsive groove; it also displays Leclair's sense of humor. Leclair crosses the line from sly wit into lampshade wearing when he slips on Senor Coconut's cover of \"Smoke on the Water\". That track doesn't entirely blend well; but what's more, because this Latintinged psuedocomedy classic rock cover follows on the heels of a few other more deft FM radio references (e.g. \"my Maserati does 185\"), it feels almost as if Lecalir told a great joke but then soured the moment by still feeling the need to explain the punchline. On the album's second half, Leclair reps his country with tracks from Jeff Milligan, Crackhaus, and one of that production group's member, Stephen Beuapre. When he reaches into his bag for one of his own records, it's the Mike Shannon Incision mix of \"Siamese Twins\", a track Leclair recorded as Horror Inc. A little less tracky and little more noirish, the mix's second half features some big guns (Herbert, Soul Center, Wighnomy Brothers, Luciano, Freaks), but it never matches the admittedly high bar set by those first seven tracks. That isn't to say the record simply runs out of steam it remains playful and headturning throughout, and it displays both Akufen's solid ear and his knack for discarding ideas before they drag past their point. Leclair's mix may not ebb and flow, but it doesn't aim to either. Instead, on his first mix Leclair seems restless and giddy, like a child excitedly moving between new toys without tiring of any of them. I guess that sometimes impatience is a virtue. "}