{"label":" Luaka Bop / Peacefrog","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9042/homepage_large.08273605.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Nouvelle Vague","title":"Bande a Part","text":"  From Pat Boone's In a Metal Mood: No More Mr. Nice Guy to the Moog Cookbook to Paul Anka's Rock Swings, we're used to hearing the soundtrack of our teenage rebellions defanged for easylistening entertainment. But the 2004 debut from Nouvelle Vague a collection of postpunk classics simmered down to a breezy, bossa nova lilt worked as more than shtick by playing up similarities as much as differences. The emotionally detached delivery of Joy Division's \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\" and the Clash's \"Guns of Brixton\" complemented the disaffected coos of Nouvelle Vague's ersatz60s chanteuses, while both songs' twochord melodic cadences could be easily grafted onto skeletal bossa nova frameworks. Not to mention that the aching rendition of the Undertones' \"Teenage Kicks\" sounded particularly poignant following the death of that song's greatest champion, John Peel. So a sequel was inevitable, if only because 1980s nostalgia now seems less like a fleeting phenomenon than a permanently ingrained facet of our musical nomenclature. Judging by Bande a Part's reverential and wellresearched liner notes, Nouvelle Vague producers Marc Collin and Oliver Libaux are obviously in it for more than just a laugh. The track list may contain its share of obvious 80s touchstones, but it also features a handful of obscurities familiar to only the most studious postpunk archivist. And though the versions of the Buzzcocks' \"Even Fallen in Love\" and New Order's \"Blue Monday\" successfully mimic the first album's bossa nova bounce, Bande a Part aspires to something greater than the application of one genre's conventions to another. The arrangements are more richly detailed and cinematic in scope, and the singers are free to wail as much as whisper. By widening the project's parameters, however, Bande a Part often loses its predecessor's balance between novel and novelty. Where the first record's subdued, sighing performances often meant the source material didn't fully reveal itself until the chorus hit, Bande a Part's garish rendition of Billy Idol's \"Dancing with Myself\" sounds like a show tune from some failed PostPunk: The Musical! production, while the staid version of Blondie's \"Heart of Glass\" is far more Tracy Chapman than Astrud Gilberto. On the other end of the spectrum, the version of Bauhaus' \"Bela Lugosi's Dead\" is so evocative of the original's despairing ambience that its inclusion here seems pointless. Perhaps these songs are too shackled to their era to be reinterpreted meaningfully, but the \"Look at me!\" arrangements they're given reduces them to an easy selling tool for attracting thirtysomethings that can afford to drop an extra $14.99 at the Starbucks counter.  It's no coincidence that Bande a Part is frontloaded with the more familiar songs, but hopefully casual listeners will stick around for the closing triptych of lesserknown pleasures: a stringswept lullaby take on Heaven 17's \"Let Me Go\"; a funereal, accordionabetted march through Visage's \"Fade to Grey\"; and the dreamily seductive closer \"Waves\", a recasting of a song by Brit newwave curios Blancmange that sounds like the secrets Hope Sandoval keeps when she's talking in her sleep. For a project built on contradictions, it's only fitting that Nouvelle Vague's most lasting work stems from its most forgotten inspirations.  "}