{"label":" Narnack","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9043/homepage_large.218eec63.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"The OhSees","title":"The Cool Death of Island Raiders","text":"  With the demise of San Francisco's Coachwhips, frontman John Dwyer's former side project OCS has become his main gig. He's even rechristened the project the OhSees, possibly to commemorate the shift, possibly to avoid association with a certain television show set in Orange County. Regardless, Dwyer's shapeshifting aspirations are evident on The Cool Death of Island Raiders, his third release of acoustic folk. And though the music performed as OhSees is markedly different than that of his former band, they share an aesthetic. Coachwhips was grounded in rock and roll but relied on highenergy garage punk attributes, encasing each component in a layer of distortion. Similarly, the folkpop of the OhSees is injected with offkilter noise and drone that competes with and sometimes completely replaces the melodies. I admire Dwyer's desire to change it up. It's not unusual for musicians used to playing loud and fast to branch out on their other projects, and it's always interesting to hear an artist use the same skill set with a different set of tools. But Dwyer's work here is a mess. He relies too heavily on the freak half of freakfolk, burying the songs in grating arrangements and murky production. The latter is especially confusing, since TV on the Radio's Dave Sitek produced. Sitek doesn't seem to have done much with the songs, but, then again, maybe he had too little to work with. The drums are often pushed low in the mix, with only the atonal clang of the cymbals cutting through the reverbladen acoustic guitar, and Dwyer's highpitched yelping is soaked in effects. What's worse is that only a handful of songs have a memorable melody to begin with, and on those Dwyer's voice is too distracting, giving the songs an air of novelty. The album's opener, the unfortunately titled \"The Guilded Cunt\", is a cutesy, memorable tune, where Dwyer's vocals almost seem to fit. It feels like a silly intro to a more fullbodied album, but, alas, it's one of the disc's more fleshedout tracks. Things go quickly downhill as \"The Dumb Drums\" falls into the album's predictable pattern of lethargic noisefornoise'ssake. The album's two straightup drone tracks (\"Drone Number One\" and \"Drone Number Two\") are an oddly refreshing respite. Contrast these with \"Cool Deaths\", which builds from warped guitar strums and slides to a crescendo of contradictory melodies and rhythms. It's as if every time Dwyer senses a straightforward pop song trying to sneak out, he kills it with a sloppy attempt at atmosphere.  "}