{"label":" JMZ","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/914/homepage_large.a4fd2f22.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Tyondai Braxton","title":"History That Has No Effect","text":" It was impossible to see what was going on to cause all this noise through the crowd. There we were, a few dozen of us crammed into the upstairs of Charlie's Kitchen in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and I had the luck to be smashed in the back, behind a whole bunch of guys twice my height. I swear to God, even if I were seven feet tall, there would always be some guy taller than me at a show. At any rate, the noise was thick and layered, drifting between textures, avoiding structure, but still managing to seem perfectly well contoured. I managed to worm my way up to the front to see who was crafting all this sound, and when I finally got there, I just couldn't believe my eyes. There's this guy on the floor, surrounded by guitar pedals, deep in concentration. He tweaks a knob, he twiddles a dial, he hits a button, and the noise changes on his command. He changes a few patch cords, picks up a microphone and sings into it. You don't hear anything. Then, a few patch cords and buttons later, there's suddenly his voice, warped, mangled, processed and spit back out by about a dozen pieces of machinery. The sound is almost indescribable like a choir of angels sucked into a mechanical hellstorm and mauled by electronic demons. Soon, the eye of the storm approaches as things calm down, and this guy, still down there on the floor, picks up the microphone and begins to beatbox, looping these little processed human vocal beats in real time to create astounding rhythms and driving along his alien textures. Soon, he's grabbed a guitar from behind him and he's layering that, too, lacing little snips of rhythm in one at a time before unleashing a swooping lead line over it. People in the restaurant look at him in a mixture of amazement, confusion, and awe, and most of them, it's clear, have no idea just what the fuck is going on. Welcome to the world of Tyondai Braxton, a place where the guitar pedal is the first stop for any sound that might be on its way to your ear. On his debut album, Braxton essentially recreates the performance that I saw that Monday night at Charlie's, and then goes beyond it into territory that's only ever been boldly charted by a few. His realtime method of solo improvisation and looping may be a sight to behold, but it's even better to hear, and on this debut, he comes across like a veteran of the avantgarde, despite a track record that's only begun to run. Braxton opens with three pieces consisting of nothing more than voice and guitar through pedals, all created live. Those laser beam vocal drones I was talking about figure heavily at the beginning, but the best moment of the entire first third of the disc is the instant when Braxton adds a distorted beat and abruptly changes the texture to match it. In three words, it's utterly fucking brilliant. The third section bogs down a bit, with freakish noises panning and careening in all kinds of directions at once, but just when you think he's lost it, Braxton hits you with the album's best piece, \"Raise Yr Arms & Cross Them.\" \"Raise Yr Arms\" is the only piece on the album that includes the contributions of other musicians, in the form of Karen Waltuch on violin and Jonah Sacks on cello. Braxton loops multiple guitar parts through his various effects and filters and heads for the drums, pounding out a basic rhythm and looping that as well. Various scraping guitar tones swell up and down, and the drums cut in and out, allowing the cello and violin to snake through a dissonant limbo of guitars. The two pieces that follow are more minimalist, with the ugly, dark guitars that sparsely strum their way through \"2am\" reminding me especially of the blackest passages of Low's Songs for a Dead Pilot. This music is slightly denser, though, and the little squirms of static that bubble up now and then help to unsettle the music even more. Braxton doesn't employ loops here, either, instead playing strictly out of time to keep you guessing when the next layer of grime will come your way. The third installment of the album's midsection plays similarly, though there's more electronic disturbance this time, and the guitars become seasick from pitchshifting. The album's final third is the most songoriented swath Braxton offers. Whispered vocal loops and intravenous guitars form the basis for the aptly titled \"Violent Light Falling Through Shards,\" which explodes with frenzied, amelodic strumming on clean electric guitars after a brief buildup. The frenzied boil of the guitars lowers to a simmer on \"Struck Everywhere,\" and Braxton, bathed in glowing effects, starts to sing his ass off. His uniquely contoured melody and passionate delivery are haunting to the nth degree, even if what he's singing is completely unintelligible. The album closes with \"Hold On to Distance,\" a remarkable song built on echoing drums and beatboxing. A minimal synthline keeps things in place as Braxton proceeds to sing what would probably be an overblown anthem in anyone else's hands. He keeps it sparse, adding more and more percussive elements as the song progresses, eventually looping its refrain and allowing it to become a part of the texture. His fuzzy guitar chews at the song's foundations from every angle, but it never gives way, instead appropriately fading away. Fadeouts frequently feel like a copout on the part of an artist who just didn't feel like writing a proper ending for a song, but here it sounds utterly apropos, as this music doesn't really feel like it has a true ending. Indeed, I'm hoping it won't be very long before I get to where that fade out comes back in. Braxton is obviously a major talent, and I'm anxious for the day when he takes the avantgarde world by storm. "}