{"label":" CockRockDisco","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9057/homepage_large.b4935a73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"About","title":"Bongo","text":"  Despite a great deal of progress over the last few years, the sad truth is that the laptop remains a secondclass citizen in rock band formats. Sure, more bands have come around to the idea of having a laptopist on full display in their live performances, but in many instances these folks are the 00s equivalent of 90s altrock's cellists less a stylistic embellishment than a way to bring your best pal on tour. Even when the sonic potential of the laptop features prominently on a group's records, its contribution to the live mix is usually marginal; I remember trying to determine at a Wilco show in 2002 whether Mike Jorgensen was a band member or the monitor guy sitting unusually close. Perhaps the inability of the laptop to truly infiltrate the rockinstrument status quo has to do with very simple, aesthetic reasons; theorize all you want, it's just really hard to rock out while pointing and clicking. No surprise, then, that a major exception to that rule, the thoroughly spastic Jason Forrest, is attempting to rectify this regrettable situation through his label, Cock Rock Disco. One of those acts, the Dutchman recording under the adverbial alias of About, proves himself valuable to the campaign with his debut CD Bongo, using the mulching capabilities of the computer to create an intriguingly nervous brand of poppunk. About's sound is not unlike what you'd expect to get if Forrest's mishmash \"My 36 Favorite Punk Songs\" started influencing actual bands, filled as it is with impossible drumbeats and rollercoasterjerk tempo shifts. However, Rutger Hoedemaekers' compositions aren't nearly as abrasive as those of most laptop jockeys, largely conforming to new wave conventions in spite of the electronically volatile rhythm section. With his nasally voice, Hoedemaekers often sounds like he's pirating the dweeby sound of The dB's (never more so than on \"Strike You as the Enemy\") rather than the sonic terrorism of Kid606, while including enough technological spice to avoid being your cool uncle's weekend nostalgia trip.  While a handful of songs stick to the \"rock band plus scratcheddisc drum samples\" format, About's toolbox goes deeper than routine loop juggling. The subdued piano chords of \"Nogato\" are gradually accompanied by a horn section, gleefully capped off by an unexpected tuba on the final verse few things in music being as welcome as unexpected tuba. \"Think Niles Drink\" and \"Stack of Marshalls\" find Hoedemaekers interrupting himself with volleys of vocal samples, while \"Band Dynamics\" employs a female singer and ravedup synthesizers in a giddy facsimile of Max Tundra's joyous 8bit pop.  Unfortunately, the middle section of Bongo gets bogged down in halfsketched experiments and instrumental doodles, stumbling over the barrier between rhythmically inventive and skittishly obnoxious on \"Boo (Hoo)\" and \"Furry Dice\". But the percentage of songs that fall victim to overmechanization is much lower that most artists who attempt this sort of hybrid; for the most part, Hoedemaekers effectively uses his cutup drums to take the energy of poppunk to new levels of sugarhighness rather than letting the machines overwhelm the songs. If only more groups could so skillfully unleash the hidden rockout potential of the laptop, perhaps it can someday successfully break the oppressive instrument barrier, becoming more than an onstage fashion accessory.  "}