{"label":" Parlophone / EMI","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9061/homepage_large.36111724.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Lily Allen","title":"Alright, Still","text":" At some point soon, the internetfueled superstar thing will no longer constitute a valid story angle. In the past four years, we've already seen pretty much every possible permutation of how empty keystrokes can beget real numbers. The most infamous examples are just that because they're neatly illustrative of how the net has swiftly undermined the machinations of the traditional system. The cases of Dizzee Rascal, Wilco, and the Arctic Monkeys alone serve as poetic reconsiderations of the practices of entire major label departments (A&R, distribution, and marketing, respectively). The only wing still standing? Publicity. Enter Lily Allen. For all its ubiquity, MySpace had yet to yield a definitive zerotohero prior to Allen, but with \"Smile\" landing at the #1 spot on the UK singles chart a few weeks back, that's neither here nor there anymore. Since Allen started uploading a mixture of radioready originals, nervy covers, and links to blognerdready mixtapes to her MySpace page late last year, the 21year old's profile has grown wilder than a Malcolm Gladwell ringlet. To date, she's racked up 550,000 page views, a recording contract with Parlophone/EMI, and, like her father (British actor/comedian and sometime football anthem dilettante Keith Allen) before her, a #1. But to say that Alright, Still is interesting because it's an accomplished mainstream pop debut made by somebody who started out with broadband and an internet addiction is perhaps too facile a reading. The other day a friend was talking about a development unique to this era the differences between peoples' carefully cultivated online personas and their reallife selves. One might inform the other, or reject it, or reform it, or cannibalize it completely, but there's always a push/pull at the center, and the task of managing and reconciling all that on a personal level is a relatively new thing. It's just a hunch, but I think maybe one of the bonus reasons Alright, Still is compelling is because it inadvertently makes gestures to that whole phenomenon. It's a throughthelookingglass trajectory that begins with a MySpacer who's got great tunes, good stories, and a funny way with commas, and it ends with a slickly produced pop album that isn't all that far apart from pretty much any other UK female pop singer in terms of packaging and presentation. Somewhere between those two points is truth, somewhere behind it all is reallife messiness, and I think people are enjoying figuring it out, not to mention having another familiar coordinate from which to put it all together. None of which would mean much if Alright, Still wasn't fantastic. Fortunately, it's the kind of debut for which the cliché \"great summer album\" is happily perpetuated. Clocking in at just over 37 minutes and boasting no fewer than seven potential singles, it's an album made at the intersection of whipsmart British pop like Saint Etienne, the Specials and– inevitably, given that both write colloquially about things like waiting in club queues and getting stoned– the Streets. Although she's been beseiged by comparisons to the latter, it's a fair one. Allen might not rap, but she shares Mike Skinner's easy comfort with language; she's confident enough that she never overexerts herself lyrically, but she's not above risking a stupid joke either (witness \"Shame for You\"s wilting punchline, \"Oh my God you must be joking me/ If you think that you'll be poking me\"). A significant portion of Alright, Still is dedicated to verbal takedowns, with exboyfriends getting the brunt of the abuse, while wouldbe suitors and dumb girls trail behind at a distant two and three; in the wrong hands, it could all seem so petulant and bratty, but Allen's wit and cynicism sees it through. Musically, ska, reggae, and calypso are her major touchpoints. From the dubinflected kissoff track \"Not Big\" to the skanking \"Friend of Mine\", there's not a lot here that doesn't use a horn sample or a guitar chug as its launching off point. As evidenced by the poisonpenned \"Smile\" and the MySpace hit \"LDN\", Allen's appeal is in the way she combines those spacious, rolling sounds with A+ pop structures. When she operates outside of that comfort zone, the results are generally still of a high order, if not a bit more erratic. \"Littlest Things\" is a supple pianotickler that provides one of Allen's sweetest lyrical moments while simultaneously leaving Ms. Dynamite in the dust on the R&B balladeering front, while \"Everything's Just Wonderful\" is the exuberant bit of cocktail pop that Geri Halliwell unsuccessfully spent her entire solo career trying to procure. Less favorably, the Madchesterflavored anthembynumbers \"Take What You Take\" reveals what Allen might sound like if she ever decided to make a run for the title of Britain's female Robbie Williams. (Perhaps not coincidentally, it's also the source of her weakest lyric.) It's a shame that sample clearance issues likely prevented two of Allen's wickedest moments, the 50 Cent homage and Grandma Allen diss track \"Nan, You're a Window Shopper\" and the Origin Unknownsampling \"Cheryl Tweedy\", from appearing here. Nonetheless, in terms of a debut record and especially given the weight of expectation placed on her to deliver something special Alright, Still isn't anything else but a fantastic success. Not only does Allen deliver on the musical promise hinted at in her MySpace demos, she also acquits herself as a genuine personality with wit and attitude to spare. But don't take it from me. You know how to Google she always was her own best PR person anyway. "}