{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9062/homepage_large.fa82120d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Our Brother the Native","title":"Tooth & Claw","text":"  Our Brother the Native's songs are loose and sprawling, pieced together with acoustic guitars, sloppy percussion, fragments of field recordings, toys raided for circuits to bend, and unison voices that sound at home around a campfire. If that sounds familiar, it's because everything about them slots with the ramshackle junkyard folk of early Animal Collective, from their music style to their name to their album title to their label. There's a lot of this sort of thing going around, of course, but Our Brother the Native have an additional hook: Two of these guys are just old enough to drive; the grizzled vet is just old enough to vote. Their tender ages adds an initial tinge of interest because this sort of music usually comes with certain assumptions. First, you generally want bands to learn the rules of songwriting before they start breaking them. Second, you expect they've absorbed a wide range of music before deciding to work in this narrow vein (see the Nurse With Wound list enclosed with their debut). Neither of those things seem possible with Our Brother the Native, when you have two 16year old guys making music in their bedroom in Redford, Michigan, and emailing parts to an 18year old in California so that he can tinker with them. We have to assume, then, that Our Brother the Native liked what they heard from the Paw Tracks catalog and decided to do something of their own. Nothing wrong with that, of course, and in the end all we have is an album of songs to contend with. The good and bad of Our Brother the Native stick out right away, and further listens do little to smooth these extremes. The production, even with the bedroom recordings and emailed files, is consistently engaging, busy with unnamable noises while leaving enough holes to let light through. Of particular interest is the subtle use of voices taped from movies, which at their best bring to mind The Books. These recordings give an added feeling of dislocation and uneasiness, coming on like a TV humming in the background of an institution while residents bang around on instruments spread across the floor.  The vocals, typically a warbling and tuneless falsetto that makes Ariel Pink sound like Jeff Buckley, are the album's undoing. You get the feeling that the songs rendered thus are supposed to sound \"disturbed\" and \"creepy\" but the effect is just the opposite an amateurish annoyance robbing the clattering musical background of its earned dark vibe. Lyrics are mostly incomprehensible, which is to the good, especially when you hear the syrupy love poetry tossed off in \"Tilia Petiolaris\", the only song sung in a normal register.  Teenagers, man, what are you going to do? Still, have to give respect where it's due: bad singing and clunky lyrics can be fixed, and all things considered this is a very promising debut. I mean, \"Welcome To The Arborary\" asis would sound really good tucked somewhere on Here Comes the Indian, and that's something. Our Brother the Native have ideas and a feel for atmosphere and I'd love to hear what they're doing in five years.  "}