{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9063/homepage_large.17ecbed3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Don Caballero","title":"World-Class Listening Problem","text":"  To many people, the name \"Don Caballero\" is more or less synonymous with the dubious music subgenre known as \"math rock.\" While the pejorative connotations of the term itself are not necessarily unwarranted, it seems unfair that such an awesome band would be forever tied to such a lame style of music. Sure, Don Caballero make use of looped, minimalistic guitar figures, and irregular time signatures, but every meticulous pattern gets pushed well past its logical conclusion, transformed, sped up, slowed down, broken up, and/or reassembled. A good Don Cab song is every bit as much \"methrock\" as it is \"mathrock.\" While drummer Damon Che has always been Don Cab's main attraction, guitar duo Ian Williams and Mike Banfield were a crucial part of the band's signature sound best represented by 1998's incredible What Burns Never Returns. Unfortunately, the Don Caballero we all know and love broke up in 2001. Aside from Che, the band responsible for WorldClass Listening Problem is entirely Non Caballero, assembled instead from fellow Pittsburgh natives Creta Bourzia. Given that band's metal leanings, and the fact that Relapse is releasing this record, it's not surprising that WorldClass Listening Problem is harder and crunchier than its predecessors. Underneath that crunch, however, there isn't really all that much going on. Which isn't to say that there's a shortage of complicated rhythmic and melodic permutations on WorldClass Listening Problem. Structurally, these are definitely Don Caballero songs. The difference, really, comes down to the quality and feel of the album's ongoing shifts and modulations. For lack of a better description, WorldClass Listening Problem just doesn't sound as intuitive as its predecessors. Changes come and go, but very little sticks. Even Che's drumming seems less inspired than usualfor whatever reason, WorldClass Listening Problem realizes very little of the dramatic potential that comes with a drummer who can play faster and harder than should be humanly possible. Amidst the relative lack of excitement, there are some pretty cool moments to be found. \"Palm Trees in the Fecking Bahamas\" borders on catchy, but never quite makes it there. Album closer \"I'm Goofballs for Bozzo Jazz\" actually hints at some of the humor in its title, but outstays its welcome as it approaches the four minute mark. Yes, Damon Che is still an awesome drummer, but WorldClass Listening Problem does little to emphasize the strength or the energy of his playing. Long story short, this is Don Caballero's first mathrock album.  "}