{"label":" Idea","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9071/homepage_large.edaeca21.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"XTC","title":"Apple Box","text":"  XTC almost never wrote a sentimental song which is strange, when you consider how much of their music deals with nostalgia, home and country, and yearning. Their lyrics are bittersweet and escapist, but even in the lost summers of Skylarking, they cling to some element biting words, knucklecracking hooks, or just a distractingly loud arrangement that keeps their most heartstringpulling, youngloveeulogizing songs from drifting away. Which is why their 1999 release Apple Venus Vol. 1 is so much more complicated and concrete than a first impression suggests. That album, plus its 2000 counterpart Wasp Star (Apple Venus Vol. 2), came out after a break of seven years. In that time, Andy Partridge, Colin Moulding, and Dave Gregory who formally left the band before these albums were released walked out on Virgin, stayed home making demos, and came back with this pair of records on TVT. And five years and no further material later, XTC have packaged them together in the Apple Box, along with lyrics, liner notes, and two demosandouttakes albums. And as far as anybody knows, these really are the “last” XTC albums so we can look at them from the perspective of the end of their career. For example, Partridge has often written about his native England from a small town perspective, particularly on Mummer and Skylarking. But Apple Venus Vol. 1 takes his vision of England further than any of their past albums. Pizzicato strings that land like piercing raindrops introduce opener “River of Orchids\", on which Partridge dreams that the asphalt covering modern England is ripped up and replaced by flowers. From there, he leads us to an older, semipagan version of his native land: people hear the Celtic Greenman from inside the town church, they farm, flirt, wed, and worship, and Partridge sings about them like a guy who doesn’t have a care in the world beyond his own village. The orchestrations give it a sweep and a scale unlike anything in their catalog, and while Moulding’s throat’s getting rougher, Partridge’s vocals have grown more beautiful and less affected with age.The first half of the set is full of unbridled joy, and tunes like “I’d Like That” burst like a kid with a mouth full of strawberries. You’d expect the album to get mushy, dreamy and ultimately, lost but Partridge never lets that happen.Near the end, the perspective gets older and reveals a hard undercurrent. The “longing look” in “Harvest Festival” inspires one of the most perfect songs Partridge has ever written, but it’s perfect because it’s so spare; the gushy memories have grown into sweet regret. And “The Last Balloon” closes the record with an eerie take on the circle of life: We’re all boarding a balloon to somewhere better, but to save it from sinking, Partridge urges the children to push the rest of us off: “We're weighed down by our evil past…Drop us all like so much sand.”  The starkest track, “Your Dictionary”, is also the only autobiographical one. Partridge wrote it about his divorce, and the blunt lyrics “SHIT Is that how you spelt ‘me’ in your dictionary?\" slam a door on his marriage. But at the end, the song doesn’t succumb to bitterness: The last section has the bellringing occasion of a ceremony, changing it from a “fuck you” to something kind of positive a wedding in reverse.  The theme of breaking and remaking comes back on Wasp Star (Apple Venus Vol. 2).Not much connects its 11 songs except that they’re the electric pop alternative to the other disc’s “orchustic” sound, and they blare along like one big encore.  Wasp Star also has a reputation as one of their weakest albums, which is probably fair; even the catchiest songs “Stupidly Happy\", or “I’m The Man Who Murdered Love” are Blist for XTC.The album works best when it’s breezy, like the clattering, clomping rhythms of “You and the Clouds Will Still Be Beautiful” or when it gets heavy, and you sense that they’re celebrating because the end is near.  Moulding’s “Boarded Up”, about a backwater concert hall that can’t draw the big acts anymore, sounds like an older rocker’s lament about how much better things were in his day. But the cut that really caps off the band is the closer, “The Wheel and the Maypole”. Starting with a clever series of euphemisms “I’ve got the plough if you’ve got the furrow/ I’ve got the rabbit if you’ve his burrow home”– it gets to the point at the chorus: to make a new thing, sometimes you have to break an old one. In the record’s strongest moment, Partridge sings, “If the pot won’t hold our love/Then we’ll dash it to the ground.”  “The Wheel and the Maypole” reads as a “happy” divorce song, escatically treating the marriage’s end as just the course of things. He could have written it about his exwife, or even about the fights that forced Gregory out of the band a “man’s divorce,” as Partridge has called it. But ultimately, nothing ties the lyrics to any specific drama in his life, which is par for the course. Ever since XTC’s early days, Partridge never wrote about himself, so much as he wrote about the things that concerned him. You can piece together impressions of his life from all of their albums, from the fast pace and frantic ambition of the early years, or the slowing down when they stopped touring and moved back to the countryside, or his mid and late1980s songs about settling down with a family.But the autobiography stays at the level of the themes.   When these two “comeback” albums came out, and Partridge emerged from hiding as a candidate for selfabsorbed middle age, it was a relief that he didn’t use these albums as a chance to obsess about himself, or to air his grievances in the public square. Unlike so many of his “dad rock” peers, he never acts like he deserves special attention or preferential treatment, and he doesn’t think he’s any safer from the circle of life than the rest of us; he’s as grubbily mortal as anybody in Swindon, and that perspective makes these albums exhilarating.  Life can’t start unless it ends. The bitter leads to the sweet and back to the bitter. In “The Wheel and the Maypole”, which as far as we know is the last song on the final XTC album, they sever ties, push off one member, and maybe break up for good.Partridge and Moulding never promise that this will lead to anything good: That would be sentimental. But what can you do? Eventually, we’ve all got to make way for something.  "}