{"label":" Secret Eye / Lal Lal Lal","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9072/homepage_large.6b9ea159.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Avarus","title":"Vesikansi","text":"  Over the past few years, several of Finland's various interrelated underground acts Kemialliset Ystävät, ES, Kuupuu, the Anaksimandros have engaged in what seems an unspoken competition to see who could craft the wildest and most singularly damaged psychedelic utterance. And though the contest is hardly yet settled, it appears that scene linchpins Avarus have once again brought out the heavy lumber. On their latest release Vesikansi, the avantrock collective attain new peaks/depths of crude freeform bewilderment, plunging the listener into a sonic wilderness so dense and impenetrable that one must fight the urge to begin foraging for food and building a treehouse. It's the second Avarus album to be released by Secret Eye in conjunction with the group's own Lal Lal Lal imprint, following 2005's Jattilaisrotta. Last year, the San Franciscobased tUMUlt label also released Ruskeatimantti, a generous 2xCD set that collected material from several of Avarus' earlier selfreleased recordings. And while Vesikansi is no match for that collection in terms of bulk or general diversified clamor, it does showcase Avarus working with a heightened degree of focus and communal potency. The album was recorded live in 2005 at the Lazybird Club in Dublin, although it should be noted that Avarus' lofi improvisations can make the distinction between studio vs. live recording seem somewhat moot. As with most of their looseknit Finnish compatriots, Avarus' lineup is in a regular state of flux, with most of their work roughly organized around the dexterous noisemaking talents of Roope Eronen and Arttu Partinen. Guest vocalist Tara Burke (aka Fursaxa) joins on two extended tracks here, but her contributions along with the rest of the group's individual voicesare typically submerged within the wider currents of Avarus' continual hive activity.  Avarus have previously been proclaimed to be Finland's most \"regressive\" musical export, and judging from the evidence on Vesikansi it's hard to disagree. The colorsaturated electronic wails of the opening \"Lapsivesi\" sound like they could be the amplified love cries of the walrus that peer out from the album's cover. Though it lacks the percussion of some of Avarus' earlier tribal jams, the piece does manage to pick up a faint, ghostly pulse along the way and patiently builds to some sort of nearinvisible waveformed climax. Somehow the group are able to pick up this slender thread again on the tumultuous \"Loylyvesi\", a track that pieces together slurred vocal effects, growling tape machines and the occasional recognizable snatch of guitar or keyboard in a manner that resembles Excepter at their most lost and drugged.  Although Avarus do occasionally incorporate acoustic instruments into their cyclonic din, their work on Vesikansi is wholly divorced from anything that even remotely approaches folk. This fact is brought home vigorously on the twopart, Burkeaided closer \"Vissyvesi,\" a boundless epic that bears close ancestry to the howling, fullscale noise manipulations of the Dead C or American contemporaries like Double Leopards. Occasionally Avarus take a detour from the ongoing maelstrom to indulge in a brief mantric campfire rhythm or goofy synth interjection, but then it's quickly back into the fray with little concern for continuity or structure. Instead, Avarus seem to take an almost childlike interest in the imaginative possibilities of pure sound, creating on Vesikansi another immersive Finnish environment of endless surprise and discovery.  "}