{"label":" Chicks on Speed","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9077/homepage_large.78d6b874.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jessica Suarez","artist":"Planningtorock","title":"Have It All","text":" Some musicians are famous for departing their homeland (Scott Walker, for instance), while others don't find themselves until they leave. Janine Rostron, aka Planningtorock, is among the latter. Rostron left England for Berlin and ran into Peaches, Kevin Blechdom, Jamie Lidell, and Chicks On Speed along the way. While Planning... doesn't sound much like her fellow expats, she does share their flair for the theatrical she performs live in Elizabethan costumes and masks which is fitting considering her video work predated her music. Part travelogue, part selfhelp manual, Rostron's debut album details the transformational powers of getting the fuck out of town (in her case Bolton, England), and using the selfimposed alienation to examine personal truths and discover survival skills. \"Bolton Wander\" is a straightforward narrative of her move and the reasoning behind it. \"Local Foreigner\" moves on its belly, with eerie percussive vocal stabs and tambourines slithering in and out and Berlin's empty buildings echoing in the song's hollow corners. If half of Have It All is about leaving home, the other is about never going back. The sprightly \"Changes\" explains her metamorphosis. Here her lower vocals are backed by a higher, ghostlier version of the same, as if her different stages are duking it out for supremacy. Eventually the more confident Berliner wins out. On album centerpiece \"I Wanna Bite Ya\" Rostron flips \"I hate your guts\" on its head : \"What happens if/ I start on your little finger/ What happens if/ I'm halfway up your elbow.\" This is Rostron's central strength: Her ability to collapse the distinction between threat and enticement, and make you forget that there ever was a distinction in the first place. It's violence rendered playful with a flirty xylophone trill, and sex stripped of any innocence by a guttural growl.  Despite her location and label, Rostron doesn't make dance music. Planningtorock also separates herself from her label mates by keeping her vocals pure, expressive, and soulful; she eschews electro's lifeless monotones and IDM's synth manipulations. The title track has the album's only true beat and bass lines. Most of tracks on Have It All stay away from bassheavy dance beats, but her songs are more flexible without that backbone. Rostron's Janis Joplinlike runs are able to cover the distance between melody and primal scream, leaving her free to exploit her entire expressive range.  Have It All is only one part of a threepart system (along with her costuming/performance and her videos). After all, the album's first track, \"The PTR Show\" welcomes you to her show, not her album. But Have It All is unique on its own, and sounds like nothing else that's come out this year. The Knife's Silent Shout could be a reference point (and Rostron has remixed a song for them) but their otherworldliness and theatrics alienate the listener. Rostron invites us to become a part of her alienation, and injects the experience with a sense of humor. It repulses as it beckons; the more you ignore her, the closer she gets.  "}