{"label":" Castle","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9079/homepage_large.d60b5ae9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Sex Pistols","title":"Spunk","text":"  This is the part where I should tell you about a onealbum crashandburn wonder that shocked and changed the world. But you already know the story pop music meets political dissent meets counterculture zeitgeist meets an ossified establishment meets two fingers in the air. Many a sentence could be spent recounting any number of publicity stunts or anecdotes that flower throughout the Sex Pistols' history and, of course, when telling their story special attention must be paid to Malcolm McLaren, the shameless svengali who used these loitering ruffians as clothes horses for his bondagetrouser boutique while dreaming of champagne, caviar, and charttopping riches. The importance of the Sex Pistols as a symbol, as a lightning rod, as a flashpoint cannot be overstated. It transcends the songs they performed, the genre they epitomized, the lifestyle they sold to an entire generation. But, of course, there's still the music to consider. Even if the actual quality of the tracks comprising Never Mind the Bollocks has been subsumed by its overwhelming importance as the Rosetta Stone for the safetypin set, that certain something is still there when the record's actually played. It's there in Johnny Rotten's voice, as incisive and invictive a weapon as anything that's come in front of a microphone. It's there in Steve Jones' onetrick guitar moves. It's there when Paul Cook bangs on his cymbals. It's even there when you imagine Sid Vicious standing to Rotten's right on stage, lip upturned slightly like a young Elvis, an audience member's spit rolling down his cheek like a defiant tear, looking like a proper punk rock bass player (even if his chops didn't match his pose, and even if original bassist Glen Matlock is actually the guy in the studio making the magic happen). Where it's not, however, is in the plethora of posthumous releases compilations, demos, live recordings foisted upon folks ever since the Pistols walked off the stage at Winterland. Rotten's famous last words at that concert certainly ring in the ears of consumers that find themselves listening to yet another shitty version of “Satellite”. Of all those extraneous releases, Spunk was there first. First issued (surreptitiously, of course) in the months before Bollocks hit record stores, this bootleg was comprised of demos from recording sessions with producer Dave Goodman mostly made before the release of the Pistols' debut. The version that Castle Records sees fit to legitimately release 30 years later is a variant that was once called No Future UK? in addition to the 12 Goodman sessions, there are three more demos also dating from 1976. The most notable thing about those three bonus tracks (versions of “Anarchy in the UK”, “Pretty Vacant”, and “No Fun”) is that they illustrate how fine a line there is between good Sex Pistols and crappy Buzzcocks. “Pretty Vacant” in particular, with the echo on Rotten's vocals and the turgid pace of the performance, sounds an awful lot like the ShelleyDiggle Experience after one too many huffs of glue.  As for the actual Spunk tracks, McLaren has publicly expressed a preference for these demos over the more polished Bollocks. He claims they give the listener a better sense of what the band was like live. Given that he's rumored to have played part in releasing this bootleg back in 1977, however, his opinion might be slightly suspect. When in doubt, go with the wellworn path the version of any Sex Pistols track a listener will enjoy most is the one that's available on Bollocks. Spunk does feature nonBollocks tracks like “Satellite” and “Just Me” (released, as “I Wanna Be Me”, the Bside to the “God Save the Queen” single), but only the latter is worth listening to more than once.  The rest of the session features the band stumbling their way through Bollocks tracks. The musicians seems to be taking the slowandsteady approach, seemingly still finding their way through the songs. Meanwhile, Rotten's haphazard mewling and howling is a long way from the disdainful sneer he'd perfect on the group's debut. It ruins the classic tracks like “Anarchy” (here called, oddly, “Nookie”) and “God Save the Queen” (here called, appropriately, “No Future”). His voice makes it even more difficult to slog through the lesser lights of Bollocks, like their “Roadrunner” ripoff “Who Was It” (better known as “E.M.I.”), or their happyfuntime gay anthem “New York (Looking For a Kiss).” If there's any service provided by Spunk, it's to show how remarkable Bollocks actually is.  Ideally, this set of tracks would be paired with Bollocks in a multidisc configuration. And 10 years ago, Virgin UK did reissue Bollocks, and included a bonus disc that featured the Spunk sessions and other demo recordings. Unfortunately, folks curious to hear this particular configuration of wellworn Pistols tracks will have to settle for purchasing this collection all by its lonesome. Those looking for some heretofore revelatory insight into the inner workings of the Sex Pistols will have to settle for the knowledge that, yes, the legendary Sex Pistols can sound just as shitty as any other runofthemill punk band.  "}