{"label":" Sounds Are Active","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9081/homepage_large.3b88594e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Weird Weeds","title":"Weird Feelings","text":"  The repetition of the word \"weird\" is no coincidence. Weird Weeds' blend of experimental structures and traditional pop is, after all, a confounding thing. There are scarcely any versechorusverse progressions to speak of on Weird Feelings. Instead, the Austin, Texasbased trio composes nonlinear pieces of music that range from hushed atmospheres to spastic explosions. And while these songs are unpredictable, they never sound haphazard or improvised; instead, the band plays and composes with high regard for subtlety. But, as is often the case with the experimental end of indie rock, these songs can be too slippery to grasp. On the title track, for example, a sparse rhythm ushers in syncopated bass thuds and hihat spills. From there, a scraping, bowed guitar tone stretches out over the punctuated beat. The song continues to build tension with the addition of clanging, trebly chime sounds. Finally, a wobbly chorus, which includes Rory Seydel and Caila ThompsonHannant of Shapes and Sizes, sings \"You feel so alive\" twice and poof it's over. Given its title, \"Weird Feelings\", and its succinct lyric, the song seems to function as some kind of study in moods. It's a piece of music that is as understated and tonal as a Rothko canvas. In other words, it's evocative and engaging if you give it your full attention, but fades into the background if you're the slightest bit distracted. The instrumental \"Nose to the Wind\" is more energetic and, throughout its duration, seems poised to take off. The sustained guitar tone of \"Weird Feelings\" resurfaces here in a more abrasive mode, as if the instrument's strings are being raked by a blunt object, Lee Ranaldostyle. A second guitar provides a foil in the form of a sprightly, nimble picking pattern and revs up to a sturdier strum before Nick Hennies clobbers his drum hit in a controlled burst of noise that conjures Deerhoof's orchestrated eruptions. (In fact, guitarist Aaron Russell has played with Deerhoof's Greg Saunier in THETEETHE.) But like \"Weird Feelings\", \"Nose to the Wind\" simply recedes into another quiet passage, content to ebb and flow but do little more.  When Weird Weeds delve into more straightforward, linear songwriting, as on the methodically paced \"Tupper\" or the lighthearted \"Broken Arm\", the band tends to forego its experimental impulses entirely, rather than integrating them to create a more fully realized whole. \"Alley\", on the contrary, manages to marry the two halves, abruptly moving from acoustic strums and slow motion cymbal crashes to chirping sounds and odd percussion to divide vocal sections.  On Weird Feelings, Weird Weeds excel at creating moods and demolishing formulaic songwriting. In spite of a few unexpected fits of volume, the album quietly demands patient listening to follow all of its structural tweaks. But, in the end, the payoff for listeners' investment is a host of cool sounds and not a collection of compelling songs.  "}