{"label":" Ubiquity","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9086/homepage_large.64909a15.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Quantic","title":"An Announcement To Answer","text":"  Will Holland comes at music from every conceivable angle: producer, listener, record collector, musician, and DJ. As Quantic, he brings all of those angles together into a relentlessly funky sound that seamlessly mixes live playing, programming, and sampling. Since debuting in 2000, he's been implausibly prolific in addition to numerous producing and remixing engagements, he's cut three albums as Quantic, two as Quantic Soul Orchestra, and another as half of the Limp Twins. An Announcement to Answer is the fourth straightup Quantic album, and it finds Holland headed further down the Latinflavored path he laid on last year's Ritmo Tropical EP. Though he's got a deep sample library, programs his rhythm tracks, and plays organ, guitar, bass, and sax, Quantic has never been quite satisfied with being a oneman band, and he's always employed guests to great effect. One of his most rewarding collaborators, Alice Russell, is unfortunately absent here, but vocal contributions from Ohmega Watts, the Rebirth's Noelle Skaggs, and Candela All Stars' Tempo keep things interesting. Holland has also pulled in Puerto Rican trumpeters Major and Javier Marrero to up the Latin ante these guys were part of the glory days of Fania records, a catalog that seems to provide Quantic with at least a few samples. The Marreros and Tempo take their turns on \"Sabor\", the album's hardest dance track, which hitches Fania horns and Holland's sax playing to a funkedup disco beat for a sevenminute workout. Tempo sings in Spanish, and his short, economical phrasing becomes almost like another sample in Holland's hands. Skaggs sings in a more direct nusoul style, and Holland backs her with roiling AfroCuban breaks. Watts gets two vocals on the album he really gets some air off the crazy bounce of \"Blow Your Horn\", on which he obeys the title. \"Ticket to Know Where\" is better, though, with an Afrobeatinflected backing for Watts' street violence lament, a balance of simply counting down the horrors of ghetto life (\"puddles of blood,\" for instance) and offering solutions to \"break the chain,\" including better education.  The vocal tracks are balanced by five instrumentals that range from okay to great. \"Tell It Like You Mean it\" closes the album by layering funky sawtooth waves, a killer beat, and gentle sax intrusions into a strangely emotional mix. \"Bomb in a Trumpet Factory\" earns it title, sounding like an old Raymond Scott romp filtered through the afterfuture. The others suffer from being a little too static, though, and while that doesn't make them unpleasant, they don't positively contribute to the album.  In spite of a little filler, An Announcement to Answer comes on strong when it counts and winds up being a satisfying listen. Most importantly, the record's complex, earthy sound stays with you, meaning that beyond their immediacy, the songs have emotional depth. Quantic's total approach to music makes his combinations organic and his records a funky good time.  "}