{"label":" Ecstatic Peace","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9087/homepage_large.64a5a972.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Tam","title":"Tam","text":" That Thurston Moore's Ecstatic Peace label inked a distribution deal with Universal just in time to release Tam's selftitled, anthological debut seems like some kind of cosmic joke. While it isn't exactly lofi, it's far from polished and perhaps because Moore handpicked the songs from several demos, production value and style is highly erratic. Not to mention that out in the broad demographic, singers, perhaps unreasonably, are expected to be able to sing. In the strictest sense of the word, Tam can't: She treats key more like a suggestion than a rule. Flat stentorian vowels waver raucously between toothmarked consonants. It's no great stretch for the Silver Jews crowd, but to the John Mayer set, it's going to sound like Wesley Willis. Maybe Moore just liked the idea of horrified Borders patrons spewing breve foam onto listening stations. If Tam's raw divagations fairly shout \"outsider artist,\" this is illusory she's been a fixture on the Montreal music scene since the 1990s, playing in Django Reinhardt and Oasis cover bands as well as her own Vampires; she wrote some lyrics for and toured with the Unicorns; and she told the Montreal Mirror that she made Régine Butler jealous by jamming with Win (the accompanying photo of the singer in a saucily modified Department of Corrections uniform lends credibility to the claim). In fact, she covers the Arcade Fire's \"Nocarsgo\" on her album, and while she plays it in her usual barebones style, it's reverent and heartfelt, the refrain of \"Between the click of the light and the start of the dream\" blending seamlessly with the gnomic snippets she wrote herself. So Tam's no fringe crazy, just a pop fan with a pragmatic punk sensibility born of a combination of technical limitation and compositional acuity. Somewhere between Kurt Cobain and Exene Cervenka, Tam manages to evoke apathy, nihilism, and queasy romance at once, leavening her throttled lines with ridiculously catchy hooks. The garage rock stompers \"1000 Watts\" and \"Deadman Brings the Luck\" reveal how unexceptional Tam's music could be if she played it safe, dressing up her voice in the slackerpunk riffage it begs for, although the rock approach also produces one of the album's best songs, \"Incest at Best\". Over toothgrinding guitars, Tam fully indulges her potential to sneer, and her lyrics glitter with the ecstasy of teenage depression: \"Incest at best/ It must have touched you somewhere/ We're so much less than friends.\" But usually, she's better when she's exploring styles of music that suit her less obviously electropop, indie folk, digital psychedelia. Her gentler songs are especially effective because there's no timidity in her singing, but neither is there a sense of blustery caricature. She softens her burlap balloon of a voice with a counterintuitive tenderness, and it floats with endearing, awkward grace. On \"You're Not Mine\", we get a dreamy pulse, slide whistles, and aching vocals, striking a stark contrast to the brusque rock numbers. \"Top\" is depressive seether, darkly lagging and surging. \"Modern Man\" and \"Stop\" creak with damaged electronics, as Tam croaks winsomely amid the smoldering wreckage. Paradoxically, there's a daring nudity to these efforts that's absent from the superficially dangerous punk ones.  There are at least two kinds of singing: the technically refined kind we admire because we can't do it, and the weirdly poignant kind that reminds us of all the things we could do, if we had the conviction to try. The latter, a manifestation of beauty predicated upon sheer force of will rather than talent, is where Tam excels. She uses rudimentary tools to carve homely artifacts that have the quiet dignity and durable utility of handmade carpentry. They may not be much to look at it, but with their emphasis of function over form, they're a pleasure to settle into.  "}