{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9088/homepage_large.a965abba.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The Blood Brothers","title":"Love Rhymes With Hideous Car Wreck EP","text":" Ah, the holdover EP. While Blood Brothers hole up in the studio, recording the followup to 2004's Crimes with Fugazi's Guy Picciotto, they offer the Love Rhymes With Hideous Car Wreck EP to tide their audience over until the new album is delivered. Of course the EP's namesake, maybe the most Fugazilike of the songs from Crimes, opens the EP in unmolested form. Should the fans assume this is the direction the band is headed in? While it's reminiscent of Picciotto's own projects, the winding singlestring guitar lines, startstop rhythms, and abstract lyrics (alternately muttered and wailed by singers Johnny Whitney and Jordan Blilie) are perfectly representative of the Blood Brothers' current modus operandi. But its inclusion on an EP with six other rare tracks (plus a video for the title track, played in its own special tinyass window) is a formality, a justification for the release of a grag bag of other material. So what are the goodies here? Two decent Bsides from a UK single, two lukewarm unnecessary remixes, a Blood Brothers remix of an entirely different band, and a live version of you guessed it \"Love Rhymes With Hideous Car Wreck\". New Bside \"Ladies and Gentlemen\" is much like \"Love Rhymes...\" though it leans more on the band's metal side, building a quiet/loud dynamic that's as effective, if not quite as surprising or stunning, as the title track. \"Metronomes\" is far more divergent, a moody gothic trudge led by Whitney as he drags the rest of the band behind him by one heavy chain. Its sterile sound devoid of any seizurelike spazzouts is just as ominous as their older, more abrasive material.  The remixes are extraneous. \"Crimes\" gets stripped down and gets a little more swing with some open space, and \"Peacock Skeleton With Crooked Feathers\" gets a guy pretending to rap over the beginning. The band's remix of Gang of Four's \"Anthrax\" is less embarrassing than many that appeared on Return the Gift, but their hoppedup drumline version barely merits inclusion here. And while I won't dispute that the band is great live, the only difference between the live version of \"Love Rhymes...\" and the recorded version is the applause at the beginning and end.  This inbetweenalbums EP is a missed opportunity, one that could have offered a peek at new material or just a peek at something, any unexpected detour outside the band's usual oeuvre. Instead, we're forced to secondguess the band's next step from material that offers no new insights. I called it a holdover, but it's meant to hold over just one group of people: the fans. I can't see this marketclogging EP satiating them.  "}