{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13555/homepage_large.fd39bbb8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Knut","title":"Alter","text":" For a rock remix to work, the artist's vision and the listeners expectations have to line up just right, and there are far too many variables at play to guarantee success. What do you expect out of a remix? Do you want to hear a composer take the song and create an even better one from its parts? Create some sort of parallel universe version that's vaguely reminiscent of the original? Or attack it Legostyle and build something entirely new with no regard to the instruction manual? Such remixes work perfectly as Bsides and EP filler material, where they often exist shouldertoshoulder with their original counterparts. Entire albums of rock remixes, however, like Alter by Switzerland's Knut, tend to slog on and on with little coherence or direction.Knut's music a hyperaggressive blend of technical hardcore and thrash metal isn't exactly prime remix material. They're not the first metal band to attempt it for one, labelmates Isis released Oceanic Remixes/Reinterpretations last year but I can't help but wonder why metal bands feel that this much de/reconstruction is necessary. In Knut's case, it's to commemorate the first 10 years of their career. The mixes range from stark, fragmented noise tracks to completely restructured, almostdance numbers. While there are a few interesting offerings, it's almost impossible to listen to the album from start to finish. Honestly, I feel bad for the artists who appear towards the end of this 1:17 trek.Godflesh/Jesu main man Justin Broadick's remix of \"H/armless\" is by far the most interesting here. He creates a completely mechanical, robotic rhythm with a perpetual guitar chug, leaving plenty of room for Knut vocalist Didier to bellow and wail. Similarly, Dälek's work on \"Deadverse Remix\" builds atmosphere in the swells of effects and thundering instruments. Other notable entries include \"Repressed Babylon\" by Ad's, a skittish, chopped up reconstruction that bounces from speaker to speaker, and Lad and Andres' \"Engine Pillsmix\", which evolves from broken guitar squawks to a glitchy, fragmented dance tune. But overall, these mixes reduce the original versions to either repetitive riffing with beats on top, or complete washes of noise. The former, such as Spectre's \"Psychopathic Engine\" make Knut sound far more like boring nu metal than they actually are, while the latter, such as \"Untitled #154\" by Francisco López, suck out all the life, leaving nothing engaging behind. Overall, Alter feels like a strokejob, and while I'm sure it's cool for the band to hear these skewed versions of their songs, it's hard to imagine many fans getting pumped up about them. "}