{"label":" Barsuk","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9096/homepage_large.9a854711.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rachel Khong","artist":"The Long Winters","title":"Putting the Days to Bed","text":"  The Long Winters frontmancumproducer John Roderick may have spent formative years in Anchorage, Alaska but there’s nothing overtly chilly about the Seattle quartet’s third fulllength, Putting the Days to Bed. Never mind that on “Hindsight” Roderick deliberates about holding a snowball of a girl and croons about “craving the sun” (all in that crazy awesome voice of his: part dude from Okkervil River, part Craig Finn), this stuff’s about as wintry as possible, arriving midsummer as balmy noise for the heatwaved and bummed vacationreeling. Since 2002’s The Worst You Can Do Is Harm, the Long Winters have made names for themselves as purveyors of hardtopigeonhole, mostly likeable if not staunchly consistent pop. The backtoback bounciness(es) of “Fire Island, AK” and “Teaspoon” on Putting the Days to Bed are further proof of the band’s leanings toward not so much power pop or even necessarily powerful pop just powered up pop, all horns and echoes and toetapping parties. But emotional pickmeups these aren’t, per se: With Roderick, everything’s about “me” and “you,” either angsty correspondence/confrontation or words to the wise. “(It’s a) Departure” finds him explaining, “I like the old days/ But not all the old days/ Only the good old days”: With Putting the Days to Bed, LDubs’ trademark aural cheeriness hasn’t vanished if anything, it’s even upped but Roderick’s songwriting, here, is at its best and maybe bleakest. Lyrically, the album concerns itself with letdowns and hard truths concerned with what suckers humans really are: sad affinities for selfdestruction (on “Hindsight” he asks “Is this new move just to keep moving?” and bails water out of a pretty but dilapidated boat because he likes the shape of it) and insatiable idealism and whatever. On “Honest,” at the album’s center, a mother tells her daughter: “Honest, it’s all right to be a singer, but don’t you love a singer, whatever you do” followed by what sounds like a choir reiterating “whatever you do”, like an updated “Que Sera” for a wouldbe groupie. Lines off Putting the Days to Bed are mostly hit or miss (misses come across as standard, petty gripes) but at their finest, they’re beautiful: “Did you see me the way I imagined? Every eyelash a picket or a wire?”  The most anthemic and orchestral approach something only one stop shy of the grandiose gloom of \"Do You Realize?\" and the Long Winters are closer than they've ever been to perfectly executing the huge sounding sad song. Still, they miss the masterful mark: Maybe it’s that there are too many wannabe huge songs stuck sidebyside, maybe they’re dwarfed in the process, maybe those kamikaze echoes wind up more grating than agreeable.Regardless, Putting the Days to Bed is a solid effort a step in a promising new direction.  "}