{"label":" Temporary Residence","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9103/homepage_large.09970df5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Eluvium","title":"When I Live by the Garden and the Sea EP","text":"  Over the course of his three previous fulllength albums as Eluvium, Portlandbased composer Matthew Cooper has carved himself a handsome niche by working a wide range of minimalist textures, ranging from solo piano pieces to densely layered immersive drones. His latest fourtrack EP When I Live By the Garden and the Sea perhaps makes most sense when considered as brief addendum to his gorgeous 2005 album Talk Amongst the Trees, but also serves as a tidy recapitulation of all his career's main themes and techniques to date. Working again in a wholly beatless environment, Cooper presents another thoughtful assortment of ambient waveforms, all crafted with a patience that can cause them to resemble timelapse footage of a twining vine slowly climbing towards the sunlight. Though they vary in their construction materials, each of the album's four tracks seem built to gradually reveal themselves as one seamless whole. In fact, the song titles here can almost be read in order as one continuous, unwieldy sentence. \"I Will Not Forget That I Have Forgotten\" opens the session with a vibrant, pianocentered surge that hearkens back to Eluvium's 2003 album An Accidental Memory in the Case of Death. Here Cooper rides a lovely circular piano pattern through intermittent whitecaps of translucent guitar effects until the piano is eventually capsized, its distant keys growing ever fainter as they echo away into the depths, never to be heard from again on this record. On the following \"As I Drift Off\", Cooper makes the cryptic choice to open with an incongruous snatch of movie dialogue courtesy of Tom Hanks in The 'Burbs. This is an effective strategy if his intent is simply to jar his sleepier listeners out of their collective stupor, but it's left unclear if this sample has any further narrative purpose to the track's grainy flightpath. The remainder of the piece seems built entirely from gentle, disembodied guitar wash, with Cooper recalling Kevin Shields as he allows the lightest trace of dissonance to edge the music's surface. This leads effortlessly into the beautifully shifting drones of \"All the Sails\", a piece that sits cozily alongside the dreamy cascades of such peers as Stars of the Lid or Windy and Carl.  The setclosing \"When I Live By the Garden and the Sea\" uses a similar technique as well, but adds a subtle layer of belllike tones above Cooper's luminous electronic drift. And though he manages to sustain this piece's fragile ecosystem for over seven minutes, like all of Eluvium's best work the track seems to pass by in a solitary whisper. Overall, however, the EP's relatively short duration and sheer unadulterated prettiness can leave When I Live By the Garden and the Sea feeling rather weightless and impermanent, as though one strong gust could blow the whole delicate structure away to nothing. Yet throughout the album Cooper's meditative focus, attention to microscopic detail, and handson workmanship allow these pieces to continually yield new discoveries, while clearing a route for the next stage of Eluvium's ongoing ambient explorations.  "}