{"label":" Tee Pee","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9104/homepage_large.c33404c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Kalas","title":"Kalas","text":" Sleep's bygone rhythm section's been achieving guitarfree Zen as Om same epic stoner chant; especially minimal sound while the band's former guitarist Matt Pike taps nirvana by exploding speakers, filleting his vocal chords, and workingup a sweat in the brilliantly venomous Motörheaded power trio High on Fire. Now, as if seeking a postJerusalem/Dopesmoker golden mean, he's fronting Bay Area doom rockers, Kalas. It shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone that Pike's a great guitarist. What is unexpected: This new outfit finds the axegrinder sans main weapon, focusing his energy on those familiar High on Fire snarls and hollers. The reason? Who knows, but that this master riffchurner attends band practice sans sixstring is bad casting: Doing a blowbyblow comparison between High on Fire and this quintet, Pike's single guitar rains heavier intonations than the two dudes backing him on Kalas' selftitled debut. The role switcheroo reminds me of another Tee Pee band, Witch. In case you forgot, that doom band finds folkie Feathers guys fronting J Mascis on drums. In Witch, Kyle Thomas and Asa Irons totally rise to the occasion, making Dinosaur J's presence merely a bonus addition to their nasal dead meadow lark. Kalas are pleasant enough, but in the context of Pike's other accomplishments, they aren't nearly as compelling. If Pike wasn't up front, there wouldn't be much reason to listen.  Of course, it's not just Pike: Kalas includes guitarists Andy Branton of Econochrist/Samiam and Paul Kott of Cruevo; Cruevo drummer Scott Plumb, and bassist Brad Reynolds. It's a California supergroup. But then, High on Fire aren't just Pike either. On Blessed Black Wings the trio was Earth/Melvins/Sunn 0))) collaborator Joe fucking Preston, aka Thrones, on bass and the mighty Des Kensel on drums. (Outside of Mastodon's Brann Dailor is there anyone doing such interestingly heavy stuff in a biggertime aboveground metal crew?)  One of the best songs here, \"Frozen Sun\", is the only tune where Pike snatches his guitar and plays lead. It's a treat: He has a way of turning it into an extension of his voice, which explodes or lulls accordingly. Strumming out some chilled, bluesy progressions, he wails (in total anguish) about the fuckedup state of the human condition. In general, these songs about addiction, death, technological amnesia, and unjust legislations are more socially engaged than Sleep's \"drop out of life with bong in hand\" stuff and less steeped in the dark devilution fantasia of High on Fire.  There are a some other good bits, though they don't sound as tuneful. \"Monuments to Ruins\" sports a nice bass line, twopronged guitar groove, and an oddly emo theme: \"Cry for the children who die/ For the ones who hang below the bridge/ Are punished for their crimes.\" \"Godpills\" also delivers the goods with a nice slowbuild to darkclouded thunderstorm. On it, some of Pike's scowls remind me of John Brannon in his Laughing Hyenas days, which is always a plus. The problem is that these highlights occur at the beginning of the record and by the time you move past song five, \"Things Done and Undone\", the feel is set and expected and there are very few surprises. Bring on the grubby caffeinated sludge!  This is a pretty relaxing listen. Maybe that's its purpose: Smoke a bowl and doze to Sleep and then shake yourself out of it a tad with Kalas until you're in the proper mindstate to handle High on Fire. Well, yeah, if your entire record collection consists of Matt Pikerelated bands. Otherise, I'd suggest you just check out St. Vitus.  "}