{"label":" Acuarela","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9107/homepage_large.fb1e30cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Xiu Xiu","title":"Tu Mi Piaci EP","text":"  Fans of overlapping covers can, now more than ever, safely play Six Degrees of Jamie Stewart as the Tu Mi Piaci EP the title means, \"I like you\" adds four new renditions of classics and subclassics (and five covers altogether) to a repertoire that previously included the work of Joy Division, Pixies, Tracy Chapman, the Smiths, Devendra Banhart, Nick Cave, and Throwing Muses. For example, in Six Degrees, the category of hiphop is now wide open. You can suddenly link Xiu Xiu to Kanye West, Talib Kweli, and countless other rappers who sample Nina Simone since Stewart has droningly and gorgeously covered her (not to mention Jim Guthrie, 16 Horsepower, and Cat Power). If your opponent challenges you to link Xiu Xiu to the Violent Femmes, then all you have to say is that Gnarls Barkley covered the Femmes' \"Gone Daddy Gone\", and that act's singer, CeeLo Green, wrote \"Don't Cha\" in 2004 for (Outkast backup singer) Tori Alamaze, who got covered/robbed by the prefab Pussycat Dolls. And then you if play a lightning round in which you switch the organizing principle from covers to mashups, \"Don't Cha\" is like some universal ore, having been garterbelted and bootlegged up against Bloc Party, the Human League, Black Eyed Peas, Juliette & the Licks, the White Stripes, Jimi Hendrix, and many others. (David Letterman even used the song as a false update on the crisis/war in the Middle East, having his announcer preen across the stage and tease the audience with his unbuttoned hotness and rawness.) Stewart's elegantly industrial handling of that fabled track is going to be called \"weird,\" but only because he did it. The original track was already plenty deviant I mean, undermining someone's fidelity to an established relationship with such carnal comeons is just plain uncivil. Some folks will resent Stewart's take as \"artsy,\" whereas the Pussycat Dolls' was \"pop,\" and thus supposedly not a thinkpiece. I see similar responses when, in my day job as a teacher, I have my students read Joe Wenderoth's Letters to Wendy's in which a man makes love to a Frosty. Students claim to be appalled by such perversity. Then I inquire how many of them own the DVD of that hilarious romp about the boy fucking an American pie, and their hands go up like I'd asked them who wanted five dollars.  Elsewhere, Stewart does soft justice (complete with some ingenious household/studio clamor) to Alex Chilton's pleading \"Kangaroo\", giving 4AD props by citing it as a cover of This Mortal Coil's cover. Forgive my identity politics, but I wish that the familybeguiled Stewart had done \"You And Your Sister\", the song by Chilton's tortured gay Big Starmate Chris Bell that This Mortal Coil also interpreted. Ah well, sometimes a mozzarella stick is just a mozzarella stick.  The showstopper is the version of Bauhaus' \"All We Ever Wanted Was Everything\". The standup bass and flinchy strings at first suggest some synthesis of Arthur Russell and Final Fantasy, and then the tune settles into a sexy torch song. Stewart's voice is familiarly about to burst with longing but it is unusually controlled like a Chet Baker tune from a spazzier Let's Get Lost, without the muted trumpets. I even thought of a recent session by Elvis Costello on Marian McPartland's radio show \"Piano Jazz\", and how my esteem for it made me feel a million years old. Oh but then: at the halfway point, Stewart spoofs Peter Murphy's imperious, wizardy intonation and a wall of distortion and screeches rides out the back half in explosive glory.  This project comes across as unrandom, in that these songs seem to set up the subject matter of forthcoming longplayer The Air Force, which eases up on abused children and concentrates on unrequited adult desire. Tu Mi Piaci is arterial, whereas The Air Force is ventricular? At any rate, I say we name Stewart's genre \"glom\" and thank him for this appetizer, even if he denied us his inevitable \"Blue Monday\" and his whole aesthetic is, you know, morbid hunger.  "}