{"label":" Bomp","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/920/homepage_large.7b843c54.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory Byrom","artist":"The Brian Jonestown Massacre","title":"Bravery, Repetition and Noise","text":" I want to love the Brian Jonestown Massacre. I really do. But no matter how hard I try, I just can't. Don't get me wrong; they've got some great songs. But they never quite hit me the way I want them to. It took some serious effort for me to even like them as much as I do. Why would I possibly put forth so much effort to like a random band, you ask? No reason. I'm just funny that way. But seriously, I heard Strung Out in Heaven for the first time back in '98 or so, and thought, \"Wow, that's disappointing.\" See, you can't just put the word \"massacre\" after your name and not expect people to have some lofty expectations. For whatever reason, I found myself drawn back to the disc a few months later and was still less than impressed. It really wasn't until I'd kinda forgotten about them, and rediscovered them last year, that I finally admitted that Strung Out in Heaven was a good record. So when I picked up Bravery, Repetition, and Noise, I figured it was now (then) or never. This was their last chance to either impress me, or convince me to give up. And what do those assholes do? They go and make a record that's so righteously mediocre that I'm back where I started. Talk about a kick in the teeth! Shit! To the band's credit, the album starts off pretty good. In fact, the upbeat yet somber second track, \"Telegram,\" is one of the best songs I've heard from them. But rest of the album never even comes close reaching that level, though not for lack of trying. \"Sailor\" is a great psychedelic song with layered vocal harmonies and fuzz guitar that sounds reminiscent of Headera Monkees. \"Open Heart Surgery\" juxtaposes a simple haunting guitar lead in the foreground with a droning organ in the back to great success. And, I might add, the vocals really remind me of Robert Smith, and therefore, the whole thing recalls late80s Cure (think Disintegration). And, since I've reviewed this thing all out of order so far, let me just say that the first song, \"Just for Today\" is really good, too. Unfortunately, the rest falls flat. Individually, the songs aren't bad, but the album as a whole is awfully forgettable. It all just kinda runs together and becomes background music rock that's accidentally ambient. One of the low points comes with \"Let Me Stand Next to Your Flower,\" which features not only a stupid title, but also an intro consisting of stringed instruments, odd random voices, and the sound of someone logging onto the Internet (that's so 1997, guys). Can you say \"Revolution 9\"? Yeah, I thought you could. And it's only downhill from there. Were this album simply a sixsong EP, consisting of the first six tracks, it could be really great. Of course, that's not how it went down, and as an album, Bravery, Repetition and Noise just doesn't cut it. The weird thing is that one of the songs is even on here twice. They could've left off the \"If I Love You (New European Gold Standard Secret Babylonian Brotherhood Cinema Mix),\" trimmed the fat a little, and had a damn fine release. Instead, we get \"If I Love You (New European Gold Standard Secret Babylonian Brotherhood Cinema Mix)\" in all its obnoxious unglory, weighting the record down with its unspeakable pointlessness. And what's with that Eurotrash accent? Who does Anton Newcombe think he is? Madonna? I mean, fuck! "}