{"label":" Force Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9112/homepage_large.7a798294.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Unai","title":"A Love Moderne","text":"  After disappearing off the map for several years, former market leader Force Tracks have quietly returned to stake their claim as the European electronic label with the most radical trajectory, abandoning completely the continental theory and austerity of sister labels Force Inc. and Mille Plateaux, and emerging as an unashamed \"proper\" house label. Shorn of its former star roster, the label has settled on Swedish producer Unai (real name: Erik Møller) to be the ambassador for their reincarnation, selecting him to mix the label's recent Digital Disco 3 compilation. Which makes sense, as Unai's debut album for the label (his second overall) is a quintessential Force Tracks record: obsessively tweaked digital disco for (pop) lovers. Pitched somewhere between the notterriblydistant poles of Luomo's The Present Lover and Richard Davis' Details, A Love Moderne is similarly captivated by house's capacity to convey desire of nearcosmic proportions. As with Luomo, these tracks are at once superficially pretty and tightly compressed, bristling with a swelter of contained emotions. Unai's key weapon here is burbling, jumbledsounding keyboard riffs that gradually coalesce into a functioning but internally conflicted house groove, as if charting a journey from confusion to bittersweet insight. Taken to its extreme, as on \"Lucky Bastard\", the effect is as reminiscent of the stuttering synthdisco grooves of Rockwilder as much as any house producer, but there is never any carnal quality here: the prickly stutters and burbles restrict themselves to evoking the palpitations of the heart. With their foggy synths, fleeting hooks, and delicately propulsive beats, Unai's grooves can tend toward the shapeless, and he relies on his own songwriting and singing to hold them together. His vocals are fundamentally perhaps intentionally weak, caught somewhere between indie whisper and soulful croon, but more tentative and nebulous than either. He fashions his lyrics to suit: on \"I Like Your Style\" he pours forth a quiet litany of timewasting equivocations and humble intimations, the conclusion in the title being the most forthright declaration of love he can manage. Mixed front and center, such handwringing might become unbearable, but Unai's sighs hover always in the background, an uninvited guest in his own songs, proffering messages of desire that are repeatedly dashed against the rocks of impossibility.  It's a strategically sound and effective move on \"Modern Love\" he transforms into a ghostly choir whose refrain combines frustration, fascination, and resignation. Still, this perpetual backgrounding underscores what is perhaps the album's main weakness: a lightness of touch that conceals a reluctance to forge direct emotional connections. Modern love, we can only assume, is a fragile affair, glimpsed in stolen glances and whispers, furtive text messages and online exchanges. Which is all well and good as a theme, but many of these songs would benefit from some of the declamatory openness and physicality they carefully exclude. On the album's stronger songs, such as the breathy, sighing first single \"Oh You And I\", this handicap is actually endearing. But these songs rest precariously on the memorability of their hooks and refrains; in contrast, \"Heart Is To The Left\" meanders aimlessly, searching for something that can break it out of its straightjacket of restraint.A Love Moderne only abandons tentativeness in the face of love's death throes: \"Steps to Heaven are Steps to Me\" staggers forward doggedly, its groove heartbroken and perhaps mortally wounded, all lurching beats and gasping asthmatic synths, the soundtrack to the execution of a death pact by starcrossed lovers. Its sequel, the haunting closer \"Exit Wounds\", gathers clouds of shimmering chords and staticky hiss around itself in a dazed reverie brought on by fatal blood loss. Such breakthroughs are painful, moments where the elaborate façades of Unai's sweeter songs are sharply punctured. That these exceptions are staged with such exquisite precision suggests that Unai has more of a flair for fullblooded melodrama than he perhaps realizes: he should allow himself to indulge it more often.  "}