{"label":" Soma","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9113/homepage_large.1d99a478.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"My Robot Friend","title":"Dial 0","text":"  NYC electroclasher My Robot Friend (aka Howard Rigberg) is most celebrated for his live shows that find him performing in a selfdesigned robot suit complete with a flameshooting phallus. So it should probably go without saying that a full appreciation for My Robot Friend's recorded work requires a heathy tolerance for daffyass gimmicks and novelty. But if one is able to ignore (or even celebrate) some of his more frivolous highconcept shenanigans, Rigberg's second fulllength album Dial 0 boasts a generous handful of surprisingly thoughtful, wellconstructed songs that linger long after the spectacle fades. As with his 2004 debut album Hot Action, here Rigberg attempts to get as much mileage as possible from his wry, detached robocommentary on human relations. Fortunately, however, Dial 0 also features a number of productive cameos from such guests as Antony Hegarty, Autojulie 3000, and Jay Kauffman that greatly help expand the music's breadth and increase the shelflife of My Robot Friend's ongoing shtick. Dial 0 opens inauspiciously with a kitschy sample from an old selfhypnosis record that sounds like it might've been lifted wholesale from a Man or Astroman? album, but quickly comes to full speed with My Robot Friend's unlikely cover of Luna's \"23 Minutes in Brussels\". Here Dean Wareham's languid postVU guitar excursion is transformed into a vibrant, jittery landscape of chiming belllike tones, spiraling electronics and urban fatigue as Rigberg takes a dramatic detour from his standard Howard Robot persona. Even more revelatory is the brilliant \"One More Try\", on which guest vocalist Antony takes a virtually flawless turn as fullon disco diva, showcasing yet another side of his formidable range over My Robot Friend's percolating, pitchbent synthpop. Other highlights include the propulsive, Devoinformed electrorock of the title track, which has been previously released as a single, and the captivating chiaroscuro \"Dead\", which is further augmented by the looming, Apparatstyle strings of Autojulie 3000.  Robot or no, however, Rigberg evidently can't seem to resist engaging in a little cheeky pop psychology. \"Everything you do is a reaction to the way your mother combed her hair,\" he intones mechanically on \"Problems\" before helpfully concluding \"You and your problems/ No one can tell you apart.\" Considerably less charming is the salacious dryhump \"Swallow\", featuring a guest performance by Crasta Yo, on which Howard launches into an omnisexual patter in his best deadpan robotic monotone, sufficiently wringing the life out of the tedious onejoke riff.  Equally disappointing is My Robot Friend's tepid version of Blondie's \"Rapture\", which substitutes Deborah Harry's vocal with cut and pasted spokenword samples to give it a ransomnote discontinuity that grows slightly more insufferable with each successive listen. Packaged alongside throwaways like the Kraftwerklite \"City Sounds\" or the goofy, folk guitaraccented nonsequiters of \"Electric Pants\" (\"The pants that I am wearing are mathematical\") even My Robot Friend's undeniable triumphs can lose some of their inventive luster. Several of the best tracks on Dial 0 have been or will be released as singles, accompanied with remixes by the likes of Modeselektor, Safety Scissors, Freelance Hellraiser, and Derrick Carter, and one can't help but think that perhaps some of these tracks might be best enjoyed with that extra degree of remove from Rigberg's overactive theatrics.  "}