{"label":" Eastern Developments","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9117/homepage_large.dd68db9f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"A Cloud Mireya","title":"Singular","text":" The last time I reviewed a Scott Herren project, he responded by calling me an idiotic and ignorant American, which is probably about the worst thing I've been called by someone who didn't have a Weezer song in their email address. Criticism is dangerous. Don't try this at home, kids. Ironically, Herren was taking violent issue with a largely positive review, albeit one in which my praise had been obscured by what, in retrospect, was an illconceived joke about cultural sensitivity. My main thesis, unclouded by the jest, was that Savath & Savalas' minialbum finale, Mañana, had outperformed the project's previous output because it started to tweak rather than reverently reproduce the Catalan folk music at its heart. Admirable as Herren's efforts to explore the music and culture of half his genetic background were, these excavations only truly took flight when he incorporated the rest of his heritage, up to and including his recent history as hyphenatedloopsplicer extraordinaire. Thankfully, A Cloud Mireya picks up somewhat from where that previous pseudonym left off, retaining that project's ethereal, soothing atmosphere. This time around, Herren trades in Eva Puyuelo Muns for Claudia Deheza, formerly of the excitably named On!Air!Library!, to fill the role of muse/singer/collaborator. Despite being detached from her twin sister Alley, Deheza still contributes characteristically strange but plush vocals, helped by Herren's manipulations and occasional lowpart harmonization.  Musically, Herren contributes a fascinating mélange of his international influences without tipping the balance toward any one locality or ignoring the technology of his work as Prefuse 73. Songs like \"These Nights\", with its mellow psychedelia simmering over a loosely funky drum kit, or \"Illustional\", which travels from skittery bossa nova to a vaguely Middle Eastern conclusion, reveal a more successful hybrid of Herren's myriad influences. It's enough to sustain songs much longer than the typical ADD Herren runtime, most notably the sprawling, 12minute suite \"Bliss Inseclusion\", which repels boredom by evolving through several different phases of Savathish fingerpicking, postrock crecendos, and backwardloop mayhem.  Of course, this kind of music always runs the risk of altitude sickness, chilling out to the point of hypothermia. \"Another Day\" and \"These Flowers\" run afoul of this fine line, mostly due to Herren's decision to eschew the use of his signature itchy percussion; without his unpredictable ear for rhythm as a tether, Deheza's airy singing floats off all too easily. Those highly processed vocals, when coupled with relatively straight backing, also occasionally wander into dangerous Enya/Sade territory, as on \"Safety in Number One\".  But to the duo's credit, these newage moments are rare relative to placid but intricately detailed compositions like \"Winter Sleep\". Exotic without being curatorial, sparse without being simple, Singular suggests that A Cloud Mireya may be the first of Herren's personae to give the Prefuse 73 work serious competition for flagship status...and I'm not just saying that to avoid his hate mail.  "}