{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9121/homepage_large.255d96f6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Mew","title":"And the Glass-Handed Kites","text":" This rock band, Mew: They might not be “cool.” I mean, they’re Danish, and they’re pretty, and they wear natty blazers and scarves, and they play great music, all of which is pretty cool. But if you see them perform, there will come a point when Bo Madsen is playing metalstyle power chords, while the longhaired 1970sprog keyboard player unleashes his “epic” wash settings, and singer Jonas Bjerre soars up into his sappiest, most atmospheric register, and you’ll notice that they’re good with hair gel and look like soap stars, and it’ll all come clear. These guys are not “cool” these guys are like Queensryche. Queensryche meets Sigur Rós, but still. And maybe that’s the pinnacle of style in Denmark (what do I know), but over here it’s uncool, and that uncoolness is part of what makes And the GlassHanded Kites, now released in the U.S., one of the better rock records of the year. The band’s reference points are normal enough in the indie world Radiohead, My Bloody Valentine but the ambitions they draw out of them are not: These are some of the only guys around who still believe in hardrock Valhalla, the kind of lavish, stratospheric, fairytale prog that’s less about making aging boys geek out and more about making young girls swoon. Who else does this would Stars ever rock out like this? Even a grandiose pop band like Coldplay wants to act downtoearth, and here are these guys with their dreamy thunderstorm pop. The payoff, of course, is that they really are nearly as magnificent as they’re hoping to be. For one thing, they’re not actually throwbacks, and their rock is cuttingedge elegant: Madsen’s rhythm guitar scratches through odd chord voicings like Radiohead, his lead lines match the dreamy buzz of any shoegazer act, and the keyboard and piano lead both through epic builds and breakdowns with only the slightest winks at “cheesy”; on first listen, they sound more like a betterfunded Swirlies than a laserlight show. These grand songs the whole record is technically one continuous piece, but whatever are complicated in a way that’s theirs: Bjerre’s doeeyed vocal melodies come in strange, lilting figures, and the band switches through tricky halfmeasures, endless changeups, and sly, slick rhythms to wrap around them. This stuff might even be considered “difficult,” if it didn’t always come back to the starryeyed soaring. Like “The Zookeeper’s Boy”, which acts like it might be a great knotty rock song for approximately 30 muscular seconds. Then the keyboards start sparkling, and then Bjerre teases you with the most unapologetically glorious chorus here a heartclutching, soaringthroughclouds, upperregister plaint: “Are you/ My lady, are you.” All 53 minutes are packed full of ideas like that, often to the point of overegging things: oceanic dreampop on “Chinaberry Tree”, interstellar hard rock on “Apocalypso” (seriously: how prog is that?), or geologically huge melodies on “Saviours of Jazz Ballet” (which sounds like Yes album covers look). They have song titles like “The Seething Rain Weeps for You” and lyrics about girls with “meringuecolored hair.”  It’s a terrific accomplishment, and it’s tempting to imagine one reason why that these guys are playing not out of fashion, but out of pure belief. What’s stranger is to imagine how this fashionbucking record could pull fans from so many different classes of listener: arty cloudbuster for Coldplay fans, sensitive hardrock opus for Guitar Center techies and Dream Theater devotees, a masterpiece for people who haven’t smoked weed yet but are thinking about it, Bambifaced European dreamers to match the unicorn poster on the wall. For our readers at a time when indie rock is enamored of scratchy postpunk minimalism, and even a grandambition pop act like Bloc Party pretends to be bristly this could be the escape of the year, a curve off into the lush, ambitious stargazing that used to happen all the time. No matter which direction listeners come from on this one, they’ll find the same thing: If you’re up for that fairytale rock glory, these guys have it down. "}