{"label":" Koch","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9122/homepage_large.94fad375.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"DJ Khaled","title":"Listennn...The Album","text":"  DJ Clue might've managed to go platinum once, but the history of mixtape DJs who release officially licensed albums is dubious. Guys like Clue and Funkmaster Flex always seem to coax an impressiveonpaper lineup of rappers onto their vanity projects, but they're only getting dregs and outtakes, the tracks and verses that weren't good enough to go on the rappers' own albums. And since the albums aren't really mixtapes, they're subject to all the troublesome sampleclearance headaches and focusgrouped micromanaging that mixtapes always manage to avoid. In short, they're the worst of both worlds. So it's almost shocking that DJ Khaled, the PalestinianAmerican Miami radio and mixtape DJ, has managed to put out a remarkably consistent album. Especially when you consider that his actual mixtapes tend to be slogs and that his vocaldrop shouting is almost as obnoxious as Clue's. The difference isn't in the rapping; Khaled's guests skew heavily Southern, but everyone is still pretty much on autopilot. There are a few exceptions. Bun B manages to elevate \"Gangsta Shit\" above a standard showcase for Young Jeezy's boring CTE posse through sheer force of will. Twista impresses by fitting the word \"antidisestablishmentarianism\" into one of his breakneck speedraps. Kanye West gets back into his irrepressibly egotistical pimpstride: \"Hi, haters/ I'm back off hiatus/ I feel just like you/ I mean, even I hate us.\" And even after the \"Kiss Ya Ass Goodbye\" remix, it's still an unexpected pleasure hearing Beanie Sigel and Jadakiss on the same track, spitting absolute gutter shit: \"Get serious, I'd gladly involve ya moms/ AlQaeda Jada, I'm only involved with bombs.\" But that's to be expected: When you've got a guestlist as long and impressive as Khaled's, you're going to get a few good lyrical moments even if no one's really trying. What elevates the awkwardly titled Listennn...The Album is the one thing no officially released mixtape has had before now: a consistent aesthetic. Miami has always been the place where New York rappers go on vacation, and it's also home to the dependably great SlipNSlide stable, but lately it's started to feel like the center of the rap world. Florida producers like Cool & Dre, the Runners, and Khaled himself have developed a style that fully integrates some of the best elements of Houston screw, Italodisco, freestyle, electro, epic synthpop, the hardplastic postbounce that SlipNSlide's house producers have been doing for years, and even (sometimes) New York rap. It's a strikingly sleek, epic, and versatile approach, and Khaled takes full advantage, commissioning tracks from most of the region's best beatmakers. Beanie and Jada's \"Problem\" unites buzzing synths with horrormovie pianos, and \"Watch Out\" lets Akon get his Phil Collins on over streaky Miami Vice keyboards. But the clear standout is the überpropulsive posse cut \"Holla at Me\", which slows down a sample from Afrika Bambaataa's \"Looking for the Perfect Beat\" enough that its oscillating beeps have room to breathe while Lil Wayne, Paul Wall, Fat Joe, Rick Ross, and Pitbull put their heads down and ride the beat beautifully. Clubrap doesn't get a whole lot better than that.  "}