{"label":" Transparent","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9126/homepage_large.f85a2359.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Wasteland","title":"All Versus All","text":"  These are fertile times for apocalyptic visions, and it appears that electronic duo Wasteland have designed the grimfaced All Versus All accordingly. The project is the longrunning collaboration between London's DJ Scud and NYC's ISound, and All Versus All is their fourth and most vividly dynamic release. And though the album contains lingering echoes of the dubstep and Ambushstyle hardcore they're known for, here they nudge their sound further towards scorchedearth experimentalism and free improvisation, as potent, nearsubliminal beats are gradually overtaken by dark alkaloid clouds and shadowy noise. Which is not to say that ISound and DJ Scud have lost their knack for deceptive, captivating songcraft. Throughout tracks like the prowling \"Mavericks\" or the aptly named \"Enticer,\" translucent snatches of melody briefly emerge and then evaporate, faceless, back into Wasteland's evercrackling ambient channels. The opening \"Intro\" rides a mass of surging percussion through a graceful construction of highresolution drones and effects, building in elevation almost imperceptibly as it rises through the stratified urban atmosphere. Conversely, the processed drones of \"In Strength\" seem to make their slow expansion horizontally, moving outward in soft, vaporous billows that can summon the filtered, shimmering frequencies of Fennesz or Belong. Elsewhere, however, Wasteland alternates these more temperate tracks with extended passages of furious dissonance. The barelycontrolled trauma of the title track wouldn't sound out of place on a Wolf Eyes album. Virtually beatless, it combines abrasive electronic squalls with sinister aquatic noises for a deeply unsettling, brokenlevee impact. Though more traditionally structured, \"Himmel\" bends tortured snatches of jazz trumpet into clipped interjections that sound like the desperate sonar blips of a grounded submarine, its distant repetitions continuing on helplessly as the piece slowly builds to a fullon maelstrom of heat and noise. And the title \"Technology\" seems intended as something of a backhanded joke, as the track's heavylidded dubstep walks unsteadily across a landscape strewn with severed vocal samples and fried electronic circuitry.  The most immediately striking aspect of All Versus All is Wasteland's restless and dogged invention. Each of these tracks exhibits great attention to detail, but they also seem to unfold as realtime events, with every minute aspect of the music's structure open to continual alteration and improvisation. This is especially true of album finale \"Hold Out\", on which the song's stately, elegant hook is revealed with an overriding patience, allowing its sinuous dub to bottomout into silence while periodically cutting the track with dry, chemicalburn synths. It's compelling stuff as apocalyptic forecasts go, and ultimately rather optimistic in tone. For even within the harsh, degraded environments of All Versus All, Wasteland prove able to illustrate the tenacious persistence of life and the human imagination. "}