{"label":" Euphobia","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9127/homepage_large.43daf16d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Say Hi to Your Mom","title":"Impeccable Blahs","text":"  When we last heard from Say Hi to Your Mom's Eric Elbogen on Ferocious Mopes, the youngster was warbling about vampires atop a perch of sturdy if unremarkable indie rock. By way of contrast, his fourth LP finds him warbling about vampires atop a perch of sturdy if unremarkable indie rock, while working in a couple of odious \"Star Trek\" references that make no sense whatsoever within the broader context of metaphorically overdrawn vampires. If it seems that undue weight is being placed upon two brief instances of questionable judgment, it's because these gaffes are so emblematic of the thematic confusion, overreaching cleverness, and phony artlessness that make Impeccable Blahs such a frustrating record. Weak lyrics don't necessarily tank an album if the music's good enough to distract, and Elbogen's music is pretty good he's quite handy with affable melodies. His voice is unexceptional, but has a winsome charm, and his blend of rigid indie rock and twittering synthpop is always at least passable, when not borderline inspired. The sinuous buzz and sparse handclaps of \"Blah Blah Blah\", the sleek newwave rush of \"Angels and Darlas\", and the Postal Service rip \"Sweet Sweet Heartkiller\" are lively and memorable. But with clean simplicity as his m.o., there's not much to hide behind, and the way his long, sometimes unwieldy lines unevenly straddle rigid 4/4 pulses makes them seem even more crisply delineated in the foreground. Basically, imagine if Ben Gibbard fancied himself Bob Pollard. We get incomprehensible images (\"Walls that jut from the earth like frozen trajectories of superheroes\"), extravagant similes (\"We're as big as the Russia the mapmakers made, and mighty as a big anvil hammer\"), deadend word games (\"Goes gray prematurely and never intends to die it out\"), clunky surrealist humor that doesn't hit home (\"We liked your headshots but your head could've been better\"), and hokey naiveté (\"It'll be over faster than you can say ‘snowcones and puppies and watching you sleep'\"). And did you ever realize how subtly all things vampiric the bloodsucking, the invisibility, the notquitealiveness, and so on can be symbolically transposed onto plain old human romance? Don't worry; you will.  It's possible to afford baldfaced pretension a measure of grudging respect for its sheer audacity, but Elbogen squanders even that consolation by trying to disguise his with a phony humility. He mistakes the assembly of consistent yet random tropes with a singular vision. Not everyone needs to be a visionary; some people can just write good songs that don't smack of private fixations (the latter are admittedly compelling, but as this album attests, you can't fake it). Elbogen would do better if he would leave the rarified sensibility to people who've come by it naturally and focus instead on his talent for lucid craft and engaging melody.  "}