{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9128/homepage_large.0fff8615.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Blood Meridian","title":"Kick Up the Dust","text":"  I haven't read Blood Meridian, the novel by Cormac McCarthy, but it's said to be violent and western. Blood Meridian's Kick Up the Dust is plenty western, a little violent, and full of hardscrabble bigsky anthems captured in shimmering clarity. Smart money blows the whistle here: This is reference porn at its most fullfrontal. What's more, McCarthy's grisly tale isn't even the only BM the band name channels. Lead singer/songwriter Matthew Camirand plays bass in Black Mountain, and you'll recognize that Vancouver band's noirish, dissociative stomp in this Vancouver band's noirish, dissociative gallop. The differences are subtle but they add up: Blood Meridian are more concise and more drinky than druggy. They take no interest in discursive instrumental passages, but they sure love tremolo guitar. Like Neil Young, Camirand writes laconic lyrics about personal struggle, but he doesn't have Young's humanist empathy. He's the simpler, shallower sort: a guy with a guitar and some problems. Narcissism has its musical advantages, though. Lacking worldly ambition, Camirand has an easier road to hoe. His music never sounds all that dogged or overburdened, the way it might if he possessed a more demanding conscience. His lyrics infuse the songs with a sense of resignation, a contented nihilism that prevents Kick Up the Dust from being moving or profound but keeps the album easygoing and fun throughout. The album doesn't score big points for originality \"Soldiers of Christ\" sounds like a million White Stripes songs, and not just in the vague sense that the bands share the same tradition but breaking new ground isn't the m.o. here. \"Kick Up the Dust\" overcomes its plodding predictability by sheer dint of sonics: Like most of the album, it's just so easy on the ears. A towering guitar slides in around the threeminute mark, sounding as sultry and soulful as anything on the Band of Horses record. Blood Meridian does most swimmingly when it truncates its songs. \"Work Hard, For What?\" lets a stuttergrowling organ riff do its thing for a piece before arriving suddenly at a decisive conclusion: \"Take that job and shove it up your ass.\" At 2:48, the only track that's shorter is opener \"Your Boyfriends' Blues\", which delivers verses in groups of three sentences yet somehow finds room for a beautiful bridge of banjo and twinkling tremolo guitar. But that doesn't mean you should bypass the longer tracks: \"Let It Come Down\" lays down six minutes of comfy, sunbleached guitar spirals; I'd take a day lounging on such blissful shores.  "}