{"label":" Silber","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9135/homepage_large.6c58e5e7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Alan Sparhawk","title":"Solo Guitar","text":" All great guitarists obviously go to hell. Robert Johnson set the precedent. You thought Steve Vai was acting in Crossroads? He's recording a tribute album for displaced Sudanese right this second to try and stave off the inevitable. In the pit, down there, in a room with no light, Django Reinhardt is forced to play nonstop while a drop of water falls on his forehead every other minute, for the rest of eternity. Link Wray is being flagellated with his guitar still in hand, while hundreds of expired GenXers clamor from all sides, begging him to him play the \"Pulp Fiction Song\" one more time. And Alan Sparhawk can hear all of it. Calling your record Solo Guitar calls some unfortunate and maybe indulgent preconceptions to mind, but if you recognize Sparhawk's name from his day job as frontman for the infamously minimal Low, all those notions fall away. There's no noodling to be heard here, despite calling one track \"Eruption by Eddie Van Halen\". (Let no one accuse Sparhawk of lacking a sense of humor.) It's a little more like the finale to Low's \"Do You Know How to Waltz?\" stretched for 45 minutes and much, much scarier. Solo Guitar has less in common with Van Halen than it does with Drum's Not Dead, as Sparhawk tries to move past where music pokes at wellworn emotional centers within us and starts shifting the physical space around us. Since it's just one man on guitar (in case the title didn't clue you in), that's quite the uphill crawl. Every note has a precedent, has been played a thousand different ways through a thousand different pedals getting a \"new\" sound is hard. But, to hammer a cliche, it's the space around the notes: all the dark, industrial corners of Sparhawk's sweetest Low songs take full court, like the dream of his band evaporating into the blackness of sleep. Any note Sparhawk hits is just to shove at that blackness, pushing it into an interesting corner.  \"How the Weather Comes Over the Central Hillside\" starts with a few discernible chords and what almost sounds like a bow hitting the strings, but the fog of distortion and reverb drown out any traces of a corporeal trigger. Sparhawk mostly aims for a sound bigger than himself. Later, the 13minute \"Sagrado Corazon de Jesu (second attempt)\" the first attempt being much more brief will spiral out of his hands as three distorted notes are plucked, looped, echoed, and eventually pierced by what sounds like highpitched surf guitar with its flesh torn off in its final minutes. He imitates more recognizable (but no less abrasive) sounds with the grinding metal screech of \"How the Weather Hits the Freighter...\" and the rattling reverberation of \"How the Engine Room Sounds\". The cheekilytitled \"Eruption\" brings it back to manwithguitar as Sparhawk makes the same spastic fretboard leaps of Van Halen without any of the discernible space between notes. The Low frontman's played disembodiedforceofnature pretty well thus far, but it's not hard to project a more human smirk on him here.  Everything Sparhawk tries is pretty successful with a pretty constrained pallette of sounds, from the screeching of \"Frieghter\" to the more watery Lowfriendly tones of \"How It Ends\", and not much in between. Don't play it at your next party, but put it on it if you want to feel something else immediately: like, uncomfortable. Or overwhelmed. Or whatever Sparhawk felt when he thought this needed to be communicated to others. Something big is coming through these speakers, twisting at the most unexpected moments and changing the air just enough for you to notice.  "}