{"label":" Def Jam","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9136/homepage_large.0bda0448.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Rick Ross","title":"Port of Miami","text":"  Rick Ross is a great rapper. Just ask him and he'll tell you. Weird, though: For such a blowhard, we hardly learn anything about Ross on Port of Miami, his lavishly promoted Def Jam debut. If anything, the album proves you can listen to someone expatiate on himself and walk away feeling like you've learned nothing about that person; it is not insignificantly a paean to saying a lot without saying anything. Credit Def Jam for an admirable con job. Port of Miami sounds so good, you might be duped into thinking Ross can actually spit. The first line of its first single, \"Hustlin',\" is a fucking beast, the best 12 words Ross ever strung together: \"Who the fuck you think you fuckin' wit' I'm the fuckin' BOSS.\" Ross accents against the beat, giving the line a freefalling feel. His \"boss\" is the sound of a trillionpound weight hitting the ground. But that's about the deepest this guy runs. In a gross perversion of lyricwriting fundamentals, Ross usually eschews the specific for the general. We know he made big bucks selling coke but (unlike Young Jeezy) he glosses over the dark side of black market entrepreneurship. We know he spends liberally and audaciously but (unlike Pharrell) he spares us colorful sketches of his favorite wardrobe items. We know he took a woman home from the club last night but (unlike Lil' Wayne or Art Brut) he withholds prosaic details like how many times they stumbled making it to the bed or what was breakfast the next morning or even, God forbid, what she wore. We never learn for sure where Rick Ross came from, and that prevents us from truly knowing where he's coming from. He's that rare, mythical creature: a rapper without a back story.  As if digesting traphop wasn't beguiling enough, here's an album presenting perhaps the starkest gap in quality between production and personality since Puff Daddy and the Family's No Way Out. The first six tracks are absolute titans, all sweeping synths and hypnotic organs and Scarface samples. \"Push It\" flips the samenamed track from that movie's soundtrack, slowing the beat to match Ross' phlegmatic gait. Grim, creeping arpeggios lend themselves to opening tracks, and this song's twinkling piano line recalls the menacing string plucks Young Jeezy used to open Let's Get It: Thug Motivation 101. The similarity's no accident. \"Blow\" sets gale force tuba farts against Dre's fairy dust hook. To call Ross' verses redundant, however, would be just that: \"Mo' trips (mo' trips)/ Mo' whips (mo' whips)/ Mo' money (mo' money)/ I'm mo' rich (mo' rich).\"  \"I'm Bad\" contains some of the album's most syllabically ambitious stanzas, but also some of its worst stumbles. Which is a shame, because the hook Ross delivers over the song's speedboat bass and sparkling horn hits is legendary: \"I'm bad (I'm bad)/ I'm back (I'm back)/ I'm mad (I'm mad)/ I'm strapped (I'm strapped).\" For a few, thrilling seconds, Rick Ross is Mr. T. \"Boss\" offers a blueprint for a successful slow jam, emphasizing the first and third beat as much as possible without grinding the song to a complete halt. It's the kind of track Lil' Wayne would absolutely obliterate, but Ross fades into the background, overwhelmed by Cool & Dre's euphoric flybuzz synths. \"For Da Low\" might be the record's biggest surprise: a \"jazze phizzle produck shizzle\" with exactly zero (0) sine wave synths. Jazze Pha, probably under instructions to keep the mic away from Ross as long as possible, does a particularly belabored version of his homicidally annoying intro drop. If anything his voice reminds us how bad we could have it. Port of Miami is a case of invention begetting necessity. Sure Ross needs these beats he has all the charisma of a cold meatloaf. But they need him all the same. He's a supporting actor, second fiddle to the real, ProTooled stars, desirable not for his authority or presence but for his utter blankness. Def Jam could helidrop any bozo into such glorious ambiance and score some hits; the album facilitates sedentariness. By contrast, Trina's \"Told Y'all\" is a quicker, snappier production than anything on Port of Miami. No coincidence Ross sounds a hundred pounds lighter in his guest verse on that track from four years ago.  Rick Ross may be bumbling and redundant and charmless, but he's not a disease. Drugs juke and jive with the zeitgeist, in and out of authority's searchlights, and this fall's college freshman won't blow lines or not because of Rick Ross. The fact he can't articulate himself for shit makes him more joke than jailbird. He's simply incapable of portraying the coke trade with Jeezy's glamour or Clipse's fatalism, of making a persuasive endorsement either way. Ross' real danger is the type of effort he countenances for mainstream rap. His girth belies his drive: He's not hungry at all.  "}