{"label":" Fat Possum","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9152/homepage_large.d743fef1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Heartless Bastards","title":"All This Time","text":" All This Time, the Heartless Bastards' sophomore album, begins with a gentle and determined piano line, a melody by no means delicate but genuinely hopeful when it hits those higher notes. Such a subtle start is a little unexpected after the fullon bluesrock assault of their debut, Stairs & Elevators. But you know what those Heartless Bastards do to that little piano part on \"Into the Open\"? Erika Wennerstrom's guitar starts churning, drummer Kevin Vaughn chomps his teeth, and Mike Lamping's bass sneaks up on it and they devour it whole. Why? ‘Cause they're a rock band and that's what rock bands do. And when they belch it back out for the second verse, that little melody has changed considerably, becoming more fuel for the engine that powers the band along. Like that digested piano theme, the Bastards have changed considerably since Stairs introduced the band's unpretentious Midwestern bluesrock and Wennerstrom's muchballyhooed vocals. They still sound heavy enough to level a small city, but they've refined their sonic tonnage to make it tighter and more agile, able to move more quickly even as they incorporate new styles into the mix. With its marching pace, swirling vocals, and cutloose chorus, \"Finding Solutions\" sounds soupily psychedelic, like heyday Jefferson Airplane, and \"Brazen\" fiercely lives up to its title. Best of all, the band actually pull off some quiet moments, like the cooing \"I Swallowed a Dragonfly\" and the closing \"Came a Long Way\". At the center of this maelstrom stands Wennerstrom, who plays a capably muddy blues guitar but commands more attention for her enormous vocals. Perfectly suited for the Bastards' brand of bar rock, her voice is a distinctive and forceful instrument, howling through these songs like a tornado through a trailer park. Furthermore, the gale force of her delivery makes her lyrics sound truly conflicted as she balances selfloathing with selfassurance. On the title track, her declaration of loyalty and affection sounds all the more convincing for being so forcefully stated, and on \"Blue Day\" you can hear the desperation in her voice when she sings \"I get no motivation/ Need some inspiration/ Try to get motivation/to help me get through this day.\"  Wennerstrom's voice, however, is both a blessing and a curse. Its power demands bold accompaniment, which Lamping and Vaughn are more than capable of providing, but because she doesn't have a tremendous amount of range, the band can't move with much agility or dynamic. For the most part, they've worked around this handicap on All This Time, hitting the big notes with scary ease and sounding bruised and tender on quieter sections—usually within the same song. But there's not much in between these extremes no building up or quelling down, just relentless horizontal jamming. As a result, they hit the same emotional notes in every song. Those notes may be distinctive to the band, but the Heartless Bastards nevertheless sound like giants tied to the earth.  "}