{"label":" Atavistic","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13282/homepage_large.fc8920d8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Bride of No No","title":"II","text":" Bride of No No's first album, B.O.N.N. Appetit!, was the first postScissor Girls offering from AZ (also known as Azita Youssefi), and offered a restrained and refined take on the jagged and frayed chaos the Girls were best known for. This current offering, the second and final Bride of No No record, comes on the heels of Azita's newest record, Enantiodromia, and offers even more refinement, owing more to the laidback acerbic cool of Steely Dan than the scatological indignation of The Fall. Knowing that II was actually produced between B.O.N.N. Appetit! and Azita's newest album, it's not surprising to learn that it serves as a bridge between the Bride's loose interpretation of rock and Azita's Bowieesque balladry. My first impressions of the record made me think this was a bridge best left burned. The music sounded stiff and inept. Azita's singing, already something of an acquired taste, sounded particularly wretched, her atonal cawing and yawping more affected than affecting. And the addition of a piano to certain tracks brought to mind unflattering, cacophonous thoughts of B.O.N.N. Appetit! and Enantiodromia playing simultaneously at unbearable volumes. A track like \"Slugville\" was a prime offender in this regard it starts with some distorted guitar, and then begins to shamble along, with some piano along for the halting ride. After two minutes of stumbling, the song switches gears, grinding against itself before going for a brief jaunt, and then concluding with a reprisal of the introductory shamble. And, of course, there's Azita, mewling about the best show on earth being free or some such nonsense. It sounded awful, chaotic in the worst possible way, illformed and misbegotten. But then I gave it another listen. I noticed how the instrumentation, for all its shoddiness and seeming ineptitude, stayed steady, established a pattern, propelled this sluggish song. In fact, all the elements of the song the lazy leaden guitar soloing, the drunken piano, the stumblebum drums act like things you'd hear in an ordinary blues lament. In this light, the piano I heard as superfluous and distracting actually lends this thudding track some necessary buoyancy, and also anchors the tempo changes. If you can listen past some cosmetic ugliness, there's plenty of other rewards to be found on this album. \"Proven Formula\" doesn't actually offer one, but instead gives you three songs within its five minute frame. \"Wait a Min\" is the closest this record comes to conventionally rocking out, though it's still not all that conventional. The ten minutes of \"Piano One\" switch between tortured pianoled ruminations and the Bride's particular brand of rock (discordant, haphazard, abrasive) in the service of telling a notsosimple story \"It's all right that you go/ I would follow... Watch as the film runs slomo/ To catch a bigger man than you or I/ To be the bigger man than you'd like.\" And, in case you're hankering for something that's readily accessible, the 3\\xBD minutes of \"Piano Intro\" are without a doubt the most beautiful moments this record has to offer. For the folks out there willing to work and give this record a chance, it's a just reward. "}