{"label":" Force Tracks","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9156/homepage_large.10569c1a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Unai","title":"Digital Disco 3","text":" ForceTracks, the younger sister in the Force Inc. family of arty German techno labels, was always the most hedonistic of its brethren, but only now does it become clear just how much: The softfocus packaging for the third volume of the house imprint's Digital Disco series depicts the silhouette of a busty dominatrix in ridiculous kneehigh boots. The artwork is telling: After temporarily closing shop for several years, the old market leader in minimal house has returned, shorn of any residual intellectual pretensions. New labelstar Unai mixes label releases and draftedin contributions from likeminded associates, in the process revealing a near acrosstheboard generational change. The selection of Unai to helm the release is logical: His brand of glitchy, romantic discopop is highly reminiscent of old label hero Luomo, and is thus the closest thing to a link between the label's different incarnations. But while previous editions in the series flirted with overt songstructure and polystylistic eclecticism, Unai's mix perversely returns to the scrupulous deepness of the label's 2001 Andrew Weatherall mix Hypercity (although it understandably lacks the epochal feel of that mix). Most of the tracks here are drifty instrumentals, delicately constructed from roaming keyboard melodies, warm electronic basslines, multitiered house percussion, and scintillating dub atmospherics. Where Hypercity frequently flirted with arctic severity the arrangements rarely doing more than they absolutely needed to the tracks here revel in their own voluptuous layering: the keyboard melodies often feel like enormous transparent clouds of vapour, filling up the entire room. It's not that the grooves are busy far from it but that they derive their notion of \"deepness\" as much from Plastic Citystyle techhouse as from minimal, and in this sense \"deepness\" equates with \"plumpness.\" At its best, much current minimal resembles a beautiful profusion of bristling thistles, but while Digital Disco 3 can be prickly at times, it mostly wants to embrace you in the soft, warm folds of its flesh. Perhaps it was inevitable, though, that the only bona fide anthem here would the album's most \"minimal' moment the sublime highregister syncopated arpeggios of Ame's \"Rej\", whose slightly Latin feel and universal popularity makes it something of a modernday \"Strings of Life\". Even \"Rej\" fits the project's brief perfectly: Avoiding any climactic release, it instead captures that brand of tense equilibrium that has long been spooky techhouse's calling card; all that is left is a captivating sense of anticipationwithoutend. After its arrival in the middle of the album, the second half of the mix drifts closer to an electrohouse sensibility: The synth riffs become more prominent, the beats slightly more stiffly propulsive, the basslines more grinding, the vibe more overtly \"futurist\" (in a perhaps unintentional piece of Space Age commentary, John Tejada's bouncy Voyager is mixed into Crane A.K.'s churning Sputnik). But Unai doesn't abandon his emphasis on deepness only soundalike remixes of Unai singles by Martinez and Trentemøller offer the sort of songful pop thrills you might expect, and then only in carefully measured doses.  While its sweep is fairly broad, at least alluding to the entire spectrum of current European house sounds, between this distaste for climaxes, the unobtrusive track transitions and the general consistency of the contributions, Unai's mix feels like it covers hardly any ground at all. Those looking for a State of the Nation on house or techno will doubtless be disappointed, but if, like me, you have a high tolerance for largely faceless but rhapsodically rippling electronic house, you'll find much to enjoy in its decadent pulse. "}