{"label":" Sublime Frequencies","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9160/homepage_large.3ebffb35.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ethnic Minority Music of Northeast Cambodia","text":"  Guess I should start by admitting that I know very little generally about the music made by ethnic minorities in Northeast Cambodia. If I have an area of expertise as a music critic, this is not it. Since we're talking about Alan Bishop's Sublime Frequencies label, the role of context is fluid. This is the 27th release in the series since it started a few years ago, and in that time Sublime Frequencies has become notorious while completely reconfiguring the way a certain audience indie kids, mostly understands the music of other cultures. Sublime Frequencies' approach has ensured that the music is heard in a new way. Paradoxically, while the packaging and record titles present the music as coming from a weird, alien \"other,\" the haphazard presentation also encourages the listener to confront the content as sound first, divorced from culture. With all the scrambled signals and ensuing discord, the vague sense of guilt and legitimate questions about Orientalism, the first thing to do is put the CD in, press play, and see what happens. Sublime Frequencies releases are generally split between radio collages, cassette assemblages, and field recordings, and this falls under the latter classification. Label associate Laurent Jeanneau spent three years wandering and recording in Cambodia's mountainous northeastern Ratanakiri province, where only 20% of the population is ethnic Cambodian. He recorded people making music in their villages in a wide array of styles, and edited the results down to this. As Sublime Frequencies releases go, it's notated pretty well, and Jeanneau has obviously done his homework about what the music means.  The album begins with what one can only assume is a very old man half speaking something called \"Brao Legends\" as a baby and mother coo to each other somewhere in the background. The voice seems to be using some sort of throat singing technique, drawing up an impressive bassheavy gurgle every few bars to alternate with words in his normal register with a Parkinson's quiver. Hearing it makes me think about the range of human expression available in the human voice it's like marveling over the phonetic pleasure of an unfamiliar language, how a different set of tools can take you to a similar place.  Elsewhere, the music impresses with its universality, suggesting that folk musics have common sources if they can be traced back far enough. More familiar to my ears is \"Jarai Ayin/Ayon Love Song\", sung by a woman accompanied by a man on acoustic guitar. Her clear, direct expression with the simple backing evokes devotion and tenderness, and the sense of dislocation is eerie, as the twisting melody and guitar backing are reminiscent of British folk. The vaguely Appalachian \"Jum Ho\" is played on a 10stringed guitarlike instrument called a Gungteng and a onestringed Krung, which is bowed and sounds like a droning violin recorded off a Victrola.  Other tracks sound more like what I would expect from the region, with gongs, gourds, and bamboo flutes accompanying the singers. Some of it is rather shapeless and hard to latch on to, as pieces seem to slow down and almost stop at whim, while other moments are hypnotic and immersive. A mixed bag, to be sure, but that's to be expected from a somewhat random smattering of recordings from such a diverse region. Listening to it, I think less about what I'm learning about the music of Northeastern Cambodia and more about the specific character of each piece from moment to moment. "}