{"label":" Arista / La Face","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9167/homepage_large.cca95cc3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"OutKast","title":"Idlewild","text":"  Outkast have never made the same album twice, and each new one requires that you go to the mountain your own damn self. Most contemporary rap albums are indigestible because they’re too damn long, but Big Boi and Andre 3000's fulllengths require effort. Their handful of big pop moments aside, Outkast have never been about singleserving hooks. Even on their 1994 debut, Southerplayalisticadillacmuzik, these two dope boys in a Cadillac were bouncing along the smoothly paved roads of perfect Gfunk, their rubbery verses racing toward the horizon, daring you to play catchup. By the 2003 release of Speakerboxxx/The Love Below, Big Boi and Dre had moved into separate bedrooms but kept eating breakfast together for the sake of the kids. On Idlewild, they’re once again sitting next to each other at soccer games, but this record is still the product of two brains contained in butting heads. It’s gotta stick in your craw when your farewell ends up your ticket to pop immortality and finally gets studio cats to greenlight the movie you’ve been sitting on for nearly a decade. Idlewild is the soundtrack to Outkast’s forthcoming film of the same name, which means a lot of it is only vaguely comprehensible for those of us who haven’t seen its parent flick (which, at this point, is all of us). Now, Purple Rain this isn’t. His own wilderness period makes us forgetful, but Prince was once one helluva fastidious editor, and when it came time for his film debut, he smartly yoked his most outre ideas to nine of his most indelible songs all clocking in at less than 45 minutes. Outkast or at least Andre prefers a PFunklike mess. But where Pfunk floored the engine without fear of either the edge of the vinyl or a club’s operating hours, their motor was an endless strokestrokestroke.  But hiphop’s compartmentalized three or four minutes don’t lend themselves to endless vamps. And so where The Love Below spluttered through an uncontrollable bout of creative diarrhea, Idlewild is overloaded with hooks and ideas stuffed into songs. Initially, it’s thrilling in the way that any spectacle is. You admire the creative largesse, and there’s no doubt a strong 12song album here. But at 79 minutes, exhaustion sets in by the midway mark, and the whole of the album takes on the feeling of someone trying to cap a broken water main. “Too much inspiration,” Big Boi ad libs at the beginning of (the pretty great) “N2U”. No shit.  The breakdown goes like this: The best tracks are the ones on which the two are performing together, like the 40yardline funk of “Morris Brown”. Opener “The Mighty O” marks the reunion both men finally rapping again on the same track but it never fully congeals. The second best tracks are the nominal Big Boi solo joints, bassheavy struts like “N2U”, or “Peaches”, with its beat like a screen door slapping in the wind. And the least best are the ones on which Andre is alone in the studio when he decides to play the blues on “Idlewild Blue” it’s difficult not to wince. The album sputters hardest when it plays on the movie’s Depressionera setting, padded with charmless jump blues and hot jazz pastiches.  I don’t say Big Boi’s tracks are better than Andre’s because they’re the most traditionally hiphop; I say it because they’re more pleasurable, more memorable, and funkier. His lyrics are funnier and more biting than the hippiefunk simp drool Andre tends toward whenever he stops rapping, and even how he sounds is now more engaging. As happy as I am to hear Dre rapping at all, it’s undeniable that his time away from the mic has atrophied a natural skill that once outshined the competition before he could even vote. Meanwhile, the dips and dives of Big Boi’s booming voice just get more nimble with age.  People who hate on Outkast haters get a lot of mileage out of the fallacy that people dislike the idea of two men attempting to poke dayglo exclamation points through the restrictive language of 21st century rap. Mostly I’m hating on the unfortunate degeneration of one of my favorite acts of all time. Even having to write a seminegative Outkast review is sad for me. Frankly, I’d rather remove chunks of my forearms with a melon baller.  Talk to you about the future of Outkast? The future of Outkast is either a breakup when Idlewild flops or, if it’s a success, a few more mixed bags. Now that they’ve purportedly made a whole movie that plays off the idea of their oilandwater personalities and irreconcilable differences, it’s starting to feel like a shtick one that they’re actively pimping. Anyone hoping for the return of the spark that made their great stuff great is, sadly, as big a fool as the kid sitting up nights waiting for his folks to get back together.  "}