{"label":" Kill Rock Stars","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9168/homepage_large.20ab4878.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Wooden Wand and the Sky High Band","title":"Second Attention","text":"  When the topic is Wooden Wand (aka singersongwriter James Toth) the discussion has almost invariably centered first upon his superhuman productivity. And for good reasonas a solo artist and with his regular tribe the Vanishing Voice he has released somewhere upwards of eight albumlength works in the past two years. On these records Wooden Wand has shown indications that his music's chameleonlike versatility might just match its sheer abundance, drawing elements of freeform Martian blues, fractured jazz, and loner folk into his genregobbling transmissions. So in a sense it should come as little surprise that on Second Attention, his first album with his new backing group the Sky High Band, Toth has made yet another distinct stylistic leap, this time to craft what is at least by his farflung standards his most accessible and songoriented collection to date. For his Sky High Band, Toth has enlisted the aid of musicians like Glenn Donaldson (Thuja, Blithe Sons) and Shayde Sartin (Skygreen Leopards), both of whom have strong connections with Wooden Wand's spiritual kinfolk in the Jewelled Antler Collective. The appearance of these accomplished psychfolk pilgrims might leave one to expect a fullblown communal freakout, but in fact the results are much the opposite. Instead, the Sky High Band appears fully content to remain in the background, providing the coastal prairie scenery for Toth's unhinged gospelblues and starryeyed cowboy anthems. The closest precedent for Second Attention in Wooden Wand's back catalog is his 2005 solo album Harem of the Sundrum and the Witness Figg. On that release, however, Toth often sang his lonesome, backwoods folk in a spirited mumble/whisper reminiscent of Skip Spence or David Crosby at their most dissolute. But on Second Attention Toth's stillquirky vocals are placed confidently front and center, and his loopy drawl at times sounds like Robyn Hitchcock channeling the wanton spirit of Doug Sahm. Recorded live in San Francisco on vintage equipment, these performances have an animated, onetakeonly freshness that allows Toth's burgeoning talents as a traditional songwriter and wordsmith to achieve our full attention.  As titles like \"Crucifixion Pt. II\" and \"Madonna\" indicate, the songs on Second Attention are replete with New Testament references, although Wooden Wand's lyrics are usually abstract enough to cloud what his actual religious intentions might be. Some of these references seem to be made as much for rhyming convenience as anything (\"Lazarus, come and gather us,\" sings Toth on the driving apocalyptic blues \"Hot Death\") but tracks like \"Portrait in the Clouds\" and \"Madonna\" have an outwardly earnest countrygospel swing to their shoulders. \"God's portrait in the clouds/ I am bloodthirsty no more,\" Toth proclaims on the former, while the Sky High Band gather around the mic in their Sunday best before somebody lets fly with a delirious, tubeglowing guitar solo.  There's different forms of worship happening on tracks like the gleefully pagan Sun Studiostyle hop \"Rolling One Sun Blues\" or the inscrutable cinematic narrative \"Sweet Xiao Li.\" Yet throughout Second Attention Wooden Wand and the Sky High Band are able to infuse his dim prophecies with an obvious delight for the surreal and a general sense of cosmic optimism, such as on the wistful closer \"Los Angeles Manna,\" when he rapturously envisions \"dogs in the house of God\" and \"A baby...born from thin air.\" These imaginative flourishes allow Toth to continue to claim new ground while still managing to sound resolutely like himself, a nifty arrangement that seems a good omen for what are likely to be his numerous expeditions to come.     "}