{"label":" Plug Research","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9178/homepage_large.4dd04a5f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"The Life Force Trio","title":"Living Room","text":"  In his review of Hu Vibrational's Beautiful: Boonghee Music 2, Dom Leone called eclecticism a luxury, the kind of thing that's \"more attainable when you don't have to sweat the basic shit.\" That record featured Adam Rudolph and Hamid Drake applying their percussive talent to everything within reach in service of a neoexotic vision where esoteric instruments were squeezed into every form imaginable; it was produced by the Los Angelesbased Carlos Ni単o, also of Ammoncontact, whose latest project is the Lifeforce Trio. Mr. Ni単o must not have to worry about the basic shit, because on the evidence here, eclecticism appears to be his middle name. Ni単o's partner in the Lifeforce Trio is multiinstrumentalist Dexter Story, and the third member of the trio is filled out by whomever else they happen to be working with at the moment (eight people fit that description on Living Room). There's no overarching style at work, so they go where the music takes them. And here that means TNT足style postrock (\"Tone Poem\"), neoshoegaze indie pop (\"Space Flowers\", which leads to the carnivalofsorts melody \"Carousel\"), and lyrical aftertherain jazz fusion (\"Luminous\"). What binds it together is a sense of restraint and economy. You expect an album like this to drag on too long, but at 37 minutes, Living Room feels thoughtful and precise. It's as if they had 20 ideas fleshed out and chose their nine best ones for the record. Albums that jump around as much as Living Room does, like, say, Max Tundra's Mastered by the Guy at the Exchange, typically have a meta layer built in; they seem to be about music as strongly as they are of it. That's the feeling you get here, of an album interrogating various corners of music to see how they work. So \"Starship\", a 2:30 interlude consisting of a gently modulating Moog and dinky electric piano melody, is a puzzling but somehow correct lead into the threepart album centerpiece \"Blue Line, Watts Bound/The Shadows Took Shape/Soul Mates, Like Thunder and Lightning\". Here an opening rumble of field recordings and moody drones that sound captured from a misty wharf at 2 a.m. pile onto a freight train, hop off a few minutes later with splashy acoustic drums and Fender Rhodes chords, then close with a blue lamp soul groove complete with a small chorus of guys singing together wordlessly like the lost children of the Stylistics. Not the first combination that comes to mind, but it works.  The sense that anything goes is amplified by the two closing tracks, which are both tributes to influences. \"Alice!\" is likely about Ms. Coltrane, but features no harp or piano. Instead, it references the feel of her \"with strings\" records, as violin and viola saw away at subtly dissonant drones while a swell or organ and accordion bubble underneath. It's dramatic and striking, and builds nicely to a pitched climax. Then \"Orbit (Spaceways Radio Theme, Forever)\" closes the record, nodding to Sun Ra another artist with a feel for eclecticism in its simple keyboard melody and ghostly voices that hear the cosmos as an extension of midcentury Disney's vision. What it all means, I can't tell you, but when the last clicks of thumb piano echo into the distance when the track comes to close, it's awfully tempting to hit the Play button again. It's too subtle to be a grand statement but as an entertaining way to spend half an hour with the stereo, Living Room delivers.  "}