{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9179/homepage_large.630f3ef5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Supersystem","title":"A Million Microphones","text":"  Here's that last summer blockbuster hurrah. Well, for dancepunk at least. On their followup to 2005's Always Never Again, Washington D.C. outfit Supersystem (formerly critics' punching bag El Guapo) have mostly outgrown the annoying tics of their former band, but no amount of synthesizer layering, glitchy beats, or other sparkling special effects can mask the album's famished backbone. It's all a shame too especially since these guys are so much smarter than your runofthemill dancepunk fodder. They almost never make the same mistake twice, but rather find new ways to sound mediocre, save for their potentially flashinpan single \"Born Into the World\". \"The Lake\" showcases this phenomenon perfectly. Saddling up on a cyclical bassline and sprinkled guitar lines, the song's got all the trappings of DFA je no sais quoi but lacks the spirit, instead riding the same four notes to dullsville. Ironically, Supersystem's tragic flaw as dancepunks stems from their desire to be a pop band, a strange twist considering the legions of poporiented bands grandstanding as Cure/Gang of Four brethren these days. As a result, Supersystem mortgage any rhytmic muscle for the sake of halfbaked singalong choruses and painfully fistpumped anthems. \"White Light / White Light\" winks at the Velvets classic, though the hipster cred is lost amidst a flurry of scifi beeps and blasts that want to trick listeners into thinking they're plugged into the Matrix. \"The Pinnacle of Experience\" suffers from similar Information Age diarrhea, the halfrapped vocals crammed with a few too many lyrics and drug culture commentary, the song bogged down by shrill synth lines that grate like a 56k modem dialup.  As far as highlights go, there's a lot that sticks but little worth revisiting. For every pretty melody on the album, such as the opening synth harps of \"Eagles Fleeing Eyries\", 10 garden variety new wave hooks sprout up, each barely more sophisticated than nursery rhymes, though equally aggravating when repeated. For all its intellectualismonsleeveness, A Million Microphones gets a mulligan after Always Never Again and botches it in almost the exact same manner, leaving another clump of misshapen ideas for the dancepunk community to shun.  "}