{"label":" spinART","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9182/homepage_large.c75929e3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"The Village Green","title":"Feeling the Fall","text":"  If the Village Green's name conjures the Kinks' landmark album of pastoral pining and nostalgia, it's no coincidence. No, the Village Green don't traffic in Ray Daviesstyle social critique or British parlor music. But the Portland, Oregonbased band is a preservation society of sorts, practicing a kind of genre slumming that sees the band veer from bluesy boogie one minute to skankin' guitar the next. But like so many contemporary bands dedicated to digging up the past, the Village Green never really forge a sound of their own or rise above a mix and match of styles. Instead, they play it safe, sticking close to wellcharted classic rock territory. Opener \"Om: The Meaning of Life\" is one of Feeling the Fall's best and least typical songs, a slowbuilder that forks and splits without losing its way. Calling to mind a less quirky version of Olivia Tremor Control, the band packs abrupt shifts and unexpected transitions into its version of smooth 1960s pop. Over folky acoustic strums and a snaking electric guitar line, singer J. Nicholas Allard layers syrupy oohs until drums steer the song into its transitional middle section. After the multipart passage culminates in a false ending, the song takes a bouncy detour. And before the song shifts a final time to revisit its first section in double time, Allard spouts some vintage hippie drivel about \"living in the institution\" and inevitably rhymes \"revolution\" with \"evolution.\" In other words, even the lyrics languish in wellworn pop models. While \"Om\" uses a less predictable structure to resist classic rock trappings, the rest of the album seldom succeeds on this level. Following \"Om\", the Village Green open \"When the Creepers Creep In\" with jumpy upstrokes and a growling bass line. Over these ska elements, the band adds fuzzedout garage rock guitars and a hackneyed chorus in which Allard inexplicably sings, \"I saw you late last night/ Sleepin' by my side/ There ain't no room to run when the creepers creep in.\" Caveman rock poetry aside, the Village Green's songs never make for unpleasant listening. But there's something so familiar about them that they sound utterly unexciting. From the sprightly \"Country Road\" to the epic sprawl of \"Rosa Glynn\", Feeling the Fall is full of melody. Still, without any risks or surprises or even emotional crescendos, the album remains unapologetically conventional.  With each passing year, originality is allegedly inching closer to extinction. But entering the rock dialogue five decades in shouldn't result in such rote parroting. If anything, the music that's come before gives bands a foundation to build on if not flatout demolish. The Village Green, though, seem more interested in fortifying rock music's bedrock with Feeling the Fall, as if it actually needed to be guarded from collapse.  "}