{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9184/homepage_large.0bda8b5d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Good God! A Gospel Funk Hymnal","text":"  The sacred and the profane make such exquisite bedfellows. Gospel and funk, presumably, represent each one respectively, somewhere on the musical continuum. Gospel is evangelical, righteous, calling people to the cause, while funk is...well now wait a second. Funk is righteous, too, and what's James Brown doing when he takes it to the bridge if not evangelizing, calling people to the cause? Funk is a feel as much as anything you can do what you please with that feel, and the groups on this comp turn the groove into a soul train to God's Kingdom. Anyway, nothing brings out the fire in the soul quite like the fire down below, so whatever's going on here, it smokes and wails and sounds like Hell giving it up for Heaven. The Numero guys built this comp from scraps of religiously tinged funk found scattered across Bsides, more traditional gospel albums, and gospel label cataloguesthey're funky aberrations from a more generally staid realm, and they're all so raw that I'm not even sure it's possible to get these sounds anymore with modern equipment. If you're a militant secularist worried about getting Jesus on your shirt or whatever, stop it. These songs are plenty righteous, but they're not preachy, and it's so easy to lose yourself in the grooves and the atmosphere that they might as well be singing about the separation of church and state for all it matters to your shaking hips and slipping backbone. Religious though they are, a few of the groups here seem to have forgotten one commandment: Thou shalt not steal. The Modulations' \"This Old World Is Going Down\" cribs directly from the Temptations' \"Shakey Ground\" for its chorus, the Universal Jubileers' \"Childhood Days\" rather appropriately nicks from Al Green's \"Love and Happiness\", and on \"I Thank the Lord\", the Mighty Voices of Wonder snatch their chorus from \"I Thank You\", a hit for both Sam & Dave and ZZ Top. Oh, but what's a little plagiarism when the funk is as heavy as the 5 Spiritual Tones' \"Bad Situation\" or the Mighty Walker Brothers (no relation to the other Walker Brothers), who bring their message of salvation on a swinging bass line and tickticking hihat that makes me picture a sweaty disco more than a crowded revival tent.  The Mighty Walkers recorded their contribution to this set in 1980, but it sounds more like 1968. These recordings didn't usually spring from bigbudget sessions, and the sheer screaming rawness of the music is definitely an asset. These beats don't need sheen to kill (or save), and the vocal testifying just works better competing with the ride cymbal for your ears. The most stunning track sounds like it was recorded with one, maybe two microphones. Voices of Conquest were a church choir with a secret weapon: Benjamin Wilson's drum kit. It's just the voices and him, slamming away with Keith Moonish ferocity; record the guy by himself for 10 minutes and a thousand DJs could eat for a year sneaking his breaks into their sets. As basic as it is, it still sounds way out there, and the effect of that wall of drum colliding with that wall of voice is overwhelming.  Other oddities include Sam Taylor's funk overhaul of Webber & Rice's \"Heaven on Their Minds\", and a second musical theater track, LaVice & Company's \"Thoughs Were the Days\" (sic), which features a bizarre lead vocal that sounds more like a caricature of a preacher than actual preaching remembering when \"Hell was a swinging place.\" These songs illustrate the gray areas this comp operates in well: Neither is intended as actual gospel, but they fit the funky religion theme. And if it wasn't for the God thing, this would be just a regular old comp of whomping, phenomenal funk obscurities. Hell, a few songs, like the Triumphs' \"We Don't Love Enough\", have a pretty universal message and are hardly more pious than the average Bobby Bland or Aretha Franklin track from the same era.  So we're back to that tangled place on the continuum, where we find that extricating two genres with such similar roots from each other is nearly impossible. Ultimately, the story of this comp is about gospel artists embracing the funk, however temporarily, and the little, hardworking labels that made these records possible. The 45 labels in the typically lavish booklet sport everything from crossesonCalvary overkill to austere typeonly simplicity (my favorite label logo is OneWay's, which shows an arrow, pointing up), illustrating the widely varied funding levels available to the people involved. Best of all, though, this represents the culmination of years of devoted cratedigging, so baggage aside, every track is excellent, and the selection doesn't bother with anything substandard. That makes for one solid disc full of music rescued from the brink of being forgotten. Praise someone for that.  "}