{"label":" Swami","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9186/homepage_large.9f6f2521.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Hot Snakes","title":"Thunder Down Under","text":" Hot Snakes were never one for making a fuss. In the middle of their 2005 tour, they decided it would be their last, without any big announcement or farewell extravaganza. They made nary a peep about recording John Peel's final Peel Session, quietly releasing the EP after their breakup. Now, a posthumous live album comes relatively out of nowhere. It's never been like the band to milk the fans, but unceremoniously slipping out quality product fits their M.O. perfectly.Thunder Down Under, like a lot of live albums, doesn't differ dramatically from the recorded versions of its songs. So this album isn't incontrovertible proof of Hot Snakes' live prowess, but there's enough to clue us in there's an obvious nonchalance from the injokes and spontaneous setlist decisions that never undercuts the performances. What raises its consideration even further is a) Its timing, as not a redundant cashin but a gift to stillhungry fans, and b) Its fidelity, culled from instudio performances for Australia's TripleJ station. But weren't their albums essentially live inthestudio anyways? And didn't those albums have excellent production in their own right? Yes, and on Thunder Down Under, something's lost and something's gained. The bass is lost behind the clarity of the twin guitars, and the drums are somewhat muffled, nowhere close to the expertlyrecorded rhythm section on the band's fine threealbum run. Yet whether it's a conscious choice or just the difficulty of keeping up his consistent forceful bleat from the records, Froberg pulls his voice back a bit and adds more character to these songs in the process.  As this was recorded while Hot Snakes toured behind Audit in Progress, the setlist leans heavily on material from that record, an exemplary rock album that's not quite as exemplary as the two that came before it. Still, I'd take most of these versions over the ones on Audit the throbbing bass chords in the latter half of \"Braintrust\" add palpable chaos, and Froberg's alternating between a scream and an aloof taunt on \"Hilites\" bring more dimension to a previously straightforward strummer. If only he'd used that subtlety on \"Plenty for All\", the song that closed their final studio album and hinted at uncharted, more melodic territory. Here, it's charged through nonchalantly midalbum, slagged through like an old standard instead of a new digression.  Worth noting are the songs from the band's best record, Suicide Invoice. The stops and starts of \"L.A.X.\" were tailormade to impress live, and they don't disappoint here: the singlenote guitar lines weave gracefully above a menacingly tight band. Same goes for \"Who Died\", the record's toothiest performance, but \"Suicide Invoice\" is the album highlight, adding not only mania but real dread to the album's final third.  To quote some common sense, a great record is probably a sign of an even better live band. A great live record, however, is a much rarer thing. But the Hot Snakes were a rare band: Three untouchable records, a peerless live show, and now a live record that does more than hold status quo, occasionally improving upon and revealing more than their brief recorded output. That's worth more than faint praise, and worth releasing.  "}