{"label":" Ace Fu","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9188/homepage_large.a69f2c59.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Acid Mothers Temple / The Melting Paraiso U.F.O.","title":"Have You Seen the Other Side of the Sky?","text":"  It feels like mere months if not weeks since we've last heard from Makoto Kawabata and his psychrock juggernaut Acid Mothers Temple, and yet Have You Ever Seen the Other Side of the Sky? also qualifies as something of a comeback. The album marks the return of the Melting Paraiso U.F.O. ensemble from a yearlong hiatus, an interval that probably seems more like a decade on Kawabata's busy calendar. During that time Kawabata kept himself occupied by touring and recording with his newly launched heavyrock combo the Cosmic Inferno and collaborating with the kindred spirits of Afrirampo, while also providing himself steady work as a solo artist and whoknowswhatother communal activities. From an outsider's perspective the distinction between Kawabata's various groups can seem pretty much academic, since they have each undergone continuous personnel shifts and they all direct their flightpaths towards the same general regions of interstellar lunacy. Nevertheless, there seems to be a special level of expansive, fullthrottle improvisation that Kawabata is only able to fully achieve with the Melting Paraiso U.F.O. at his back, and Have You Seen the Other Side of the Sky? rockets him right back into this fertile zone. For this album the group includes longtime AMT vets like bassist Atsushi Tsuyama and keyboardist Hiroshi Higashi, as well as newcomers like vocalist Nao (who is also charged with \"astral easy virtue\") and reed player Ryoko Ono. Ono's florid interjections on flute and alto sax give much of the album an additional jolt of freejazz ecstasy, but here as usual Kawabata and AMT are in no frame of mind to stick to any single genre for long. The acoustic \"Buy the Moon of Jupiter\" is an idyll of semilucid stoner folk, while \"Asimo's Naked Breakfast: Rice and Shine\" builds upon feral vocals and Kawabata's fingerpicked guitars to sculpt a meandering, Kevin Ayerslike medieval fantasia. During this track, as well as on the droning \"Interplanetary Love\", the group happens across interludes of almost startling pastoral beauty, the limpid effects of which are immediately discarded by the excellently titled thrash meltdown \"I Wanna Be Your Bicycle Saddle\". The primary downside to AMT's methodology here is that they make no effort whatsoever to integrate these radical personality splits, and so Have You Seen the Other Side of the Sky? contains no shadow of the intuitive cohesion the group has displayed on transcendent fulllength works like IAO Chant From the Cosmic Inferno or In C.  Of course, no AMT release would be complete without a least one sprawling, longform freakout, and here they present us with yet another fucking doozy. Albumcloser \"The Tales of Solar Sail  Dark Stars in the Dazzling Sky\", is a halfhour epic that, like the rest of this material, appears to have been composed in several episodes. The piece opens with a simple drone of flute/recorder and hurdygurdy that continues long enough for one to assume nothing else is going to happen, before Kawabata finally rips into the song's sturdy central guitar riff. As has come to be expected, the bass and drums are unfortunately muffled in AMT's homegrown mix, and far too much attention is provided to Higashi's relentless scifi keyboard effects. But such minor details have never prevented Kawabata and company (whoever they may be) from going utterly apeshit and so they do here, raising their colorsaturated wash of freeform sax and guitar like desperate S.O.S. to the heavens. It's another formidable cosmic bleat from the flock that never tires. Same time next month?  "}