{"label":" KEXP","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9191/homepage_large.dbff1b33.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Live at KEXP Volume 2","text":"  Compilations like this are the reason your skip button is worn down to a smooth, shiny surface. Generally, radiogenerated discs or, for that matter, label compilations and soundtracks are broad enough to attract as many listeners as possible, but if there's something for everyone, there's also inevitably something that someone will hate. To counter (if not circumvent) this problem, the compilers of the second volume of Live at KEXP have created a Now That's What I Call Indie compilation, designed to appeal to as many listeners as possible within a very strictly delineated category. Drawn from more than 370 instudio performances over the last year, Volume 2 seems targeted to appeal to, for example, people who read Pitchfork but never admit they do. Within these indie confines, Live at KEXP Volume 2 proves surprisingly diverse, covering indie rap, indie rock, indie pop, indie folk, and indie revival all within a 20song tracklist. Even though it lacks many luminaries that have appeared on the show, Volume 2 is adequately representative of the last year or so of indie music. At the very least, it's a more compelling snapshot than any of the O.C. soundtracks. What's interesting, and maybe even inspiring, about the approach to this compilation is its intrinsic, optimistic assumption that its audience is wellversed and openminded about music. Volume 2 trusts that a listener who comes for Death Cab for Cutie or the Decemberists will stay for the fiery performances by Gang of Four and SleaterKinney, or that the Bright Eyes fan will give Common Market and Skullbot a chance. The CD includes blog faves like Tapes ‘n Tapes, who perform a spiky version of \"Insistor\", and Band of Horses, whose heartonsleeve performance of \"The Funeral\" outemos most emo without actually sounding emo. These relative newcomers mingle with lifers like the always dependable Ted Leo + the Pharmacists, walking through \"Walking to Do\", and SleaterKinney, raging through \"Jumpers\" as if even then they knew their days together were numbered. Too bad they shred their voices so ragged they can't deliver the finale and the song drops off in the final measure (no pun intended).  Not everything here is guitarbased, however. Lyrics Born kicks things off with the rousing and welcoming \"Callin' Out\", introducing himself by hoping he doesn't forget not to curse on the radio. Common Market take up the undie rap banner later on, although their clever \"Connect For\" wears out its concept fairly quickly. M.I.A. blazes through \"Galang\" with the fierce intensity of someone with something to prove. Into this category go the boutique soundtrackers: Thievery Corporation use a canned emcee to get \"Warning Shots\" across, although Zero 7 and Aqualung don't give much reason to pay attention to \"Home\" and \"Brighter Than Sunshine\", respectively, although both tracks did make me thirsty for a skim latte.  So this is a compilation for music enthusiasts who don't necessarily define themselves by one particular band or movement, but whose curiosity might urge them to venture beyond the familiar. Maybe that's just wishful thinking as those wornout buttons might attest but KEXP has been betting on listeners' diverse tastes for more than three decades. The station has been broadcasting a wide range of styles and genres to Seattle since 1972, and today is one of too few independents standing in the way of fullscale corporatization of the airwaves. In other words, if you're gonna buy Volume 2, buy it here: www.kexp.org.  Most interestingly, Volume 2 gathers indie musicians in every stage of their careers, so you can almost put together a general indie storyline. Skullbot, the comp's only regional and unsigned band, kick up a lot of teenage hostility on the sloweddown hardcore \"Lookout\". It's not unlikely they might build a loyal cult following like Bright Eyes or the DriveBy Truckers (whose \"World of Hurt\" is surprisingly affecting in a live setting), after which they will either stay indie for life, like SleaterKinney, or sign to a major, like the Decemberists (whose \"We Both Go Down Together\" sounds terminally languid here) or Death Cab for Cutie (although let's hope Skullbot never record anything as precious as \"Crooked Teeth\").  Finally, such a prospective storyline suggests that Skullbot will do one of three things: They'll follow a trend to a minor hit and risk fleeting fame, like Editors, whose \"Munich\" doesn't hold up live; or they'll break up and reform two decades later, like Gang of Four, who sound like consummate professionals on \"What We All Want\"; or else they'll keep chugging along for decades like Patti Smith, whose acoustic \"People Have the Power\" closes the set on an unmistakably pointed note. In any case, it's worth noting that Skullbot started out as KEXP's target audience: Listeners just a few songs away from picking up an instrument and making their own independent music.  "}