{"label":" Subterranean","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9195/homepage_large.332a9583.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Code of Honor","title":"Complete Studio Recordings 1982-1984","text":"  As early hardcore schtick, Code of Honor's central conceit an actual, 11part honor code ranks somewhere below 7 Seconds' eyeblack and batting gloves stagewear, and a little above Minor Threat's Xed up hands. Totally ridiculous, but explicable: Eighties hardcore, famous for being Neanderthal music (see: Youth of Today), was still remarkably conceptual ridiculous, goofy, but nevertheless thought through. So there's really no good way to contextualize, or even describe, the weirdness of the rebirth of bands like Code of Honor into the contemporary, and wildly inhospitable, review cycle. Where today's bands generally have their context handed to them all things being equal on the internet or in the digital download store Code of Honor are a relic of a different time when bands fought fiercely merely to explain what the fuck they were. Hence the honor code. Code of Honor guitarist Michael Fox was, then and now, a linchpin of the San Francisco punk scene. Cofounder of Subterranean Records, the label that released Flipper onto the world (plus the seminal SF Underground 7\" comp), Fox was a Maximumrocknroll darling who played in a series of respected Bay Area bands: Tools, Sick Pleasure, and eventually, Code of Honor. In California, Black Flag, Bad Religion, and the Adolescents already had records out; in their native San Francisco, Code of Honor were immediately and consistently eclipsed by the Dead Kennedys. In the east, Minor Threat and Bad Brains ruled; in the Midwest, it was Hüsker Dü and Die Kreuzen. Like Articles of Faith, Chicago's protoemo thrash band of that era, Code of Honor were known by many but only loved by a very few. Even Code of Honor's label was better known for issuing records from the San Fran \"freak scene,\" including what Simon Reynolds called \"the San Francisco counterpart to No New York,\" the live comp Live at Target. Articles of Faith, a similarly marginal band, embarked on a reissue campaign in the 1990s and when the recordings resurfaced, they were a shock. Here was a band, it turned out, that had been obviously worshipped by acts as diverse as Born Against and Rites of Spring, presaging a far thrashier hardcore even as they laid down a bunch of the groundwork for emo as an eventual genre. Code of Honor, graced with the rerelease of their Complete Studio Recordings: 19821984, turn out to have no such surprises in store.  They were an average era group. They showed flashes of Minutemen funk (\"What Are We Gonna Do??\") and flirted with the type of melodic hardcore that Dag Nasty and others would later perfect (\"Attempted Control\"). \"Beware the Savage Jaw\" is a better 7 Seconds than 7 Seconds ever managed. But their songs are less visionary than completely of their time.  As gentle reprimand, then, to today's largely apolitical music world, the decision by Subterranean to release Code of Honor's Complete Studio Recordings makes a lot more sense. Having had their entire context demolished when these recordings were originally released, the band was part of a popular and widespread first wave hardcore movement that loved speed and loathed Reagan in equal measure, and made song after song about it they're not wrong to remind people they once existed. This a band, after all, that wrote the following in 1982: \"The destruction of peace in the Far and Middle East/ They playing their game/ We all know what it's for/ Their eyes are money/ They're planning for war.\"  Code of Honor were inspiring, though, for the same reason that it's almost impossible to get through Complete Studio Recordings in one sitting: a relentless, monotonous, note of a protest. You don't have to miss four chord thrash and atonal yelling to wonder why it's so difficult for another act, any act, to say something as simple as \"Kill your leaders/ They all must go/ Like Ronald Reagan's fascist soul/ They're like a plague that never ends/ They create death/ They're not our friends...Fight or die!\"  "}