{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9202/homepage_large.624772c0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rogue's Gallery","text":"  There are a number of reasons why Rogue's Gallery shouldn't have worked. As the subtitle helpfully states, this a collection of old \"pirate ballads, sea songs and chanteys\" recorded by the motliest of crews, artists ranging from indie (Akron/Family) to auspicious (Sting, Bono), from predictable (Nick Cave) to surprising (cartoonist Ralph Steadman). Furthermore, it is a hushhush tiein (albeit not a soundtrack) to Pirates of the Caribbean 2: Dead Man's Chest director Gore Verbinski and Johnny Depp originated the project, and their involvement no doubt gives it a boost. The collection gives the immediate impression that it wants to do for pirates and chanteys what O Brother, Where Art Thou? did for yokels and Appalachian music. But top billing on that Odd NerdrumgoesHollywood cover art goes to producer Hal Willner, perhaps best known for 1989's Disney tribute Stay Awake, a true gem in the otherwise lackluster Various Artists file. For Willner, Rogue's Gallery seems as much a research project as a commercial venture: He reportedly compiled a library of more than 600 tunes from which to whittle a tracklist. The pairings of singer and song make for some great moments and disasters alike, but Willner allows the musicians to be as maudlin or as bawdy as they want. Those accustomed to the Decemberists' modern maritime recreations will hear very few smirks or winks on these 43 tracks. (That said, Meloy is conspicuously absent from this collection, despite having reintroduced the maritime ballad into the indie lexicon with compositions like \"Shanty for Arethusa\" and \"The Mariner's Revenge Song\".) Despite its connection to this summer's allages blockbuster, Rogue's Gallery is definitely rated Arrrrrrrr (sorry). Parents whose kids loved the adventures of Cap'n Jack Sparrow will want to keep the l'il buggers out of earshot of Nick Cave's reading of \"Fire Down Below\", which assigns many meanings to that threeword phrase, from the nautical to the spiritual to the sexual. But Cave's work here is schoolboy stuff compared to Gavin Friday. In his take on the gleefully pornographic \"Baltimore Whores\", Friday describes...my mom reads this site sometimes. And you'll just have to guess as to what Loudon Wainwright III rhymes with \"Good Ship Venus\", a song that seems designed purely to make a sailor blush. His take, however, is more than just a ribald recounting of sexual antics at sea; Wainwright seems to be having more fun here than anyone else.  Instead of ribald humor, Joseph Arthur goes for inspired silliness on \"Coast of High Barbary\", abandoning his typically brooding vocals for an uncharacteristically exaggerated and almost unrecognizable tenor, and stuntguitarplayer and throatsinger Baby Gramps shapes his voice into a digeridoo on the sevenminute opener, \"Cape Cod Girls\". Actor John C. Reilly acquits himself very nicely on two tracks, the staggeringly dignified drinking song \"Fathom the Bowl\" the better of the two, and Ralph Steadman (you know him as Hunter S. Thompson's visual collaborator) may hardly be the very model of a modern major label crooner on closer \"Little Boy Billy\", but he relishes each roll of consonants and relates his tale of attempted cannibalism like's he playing parlor games. On the other hand, when musicians try for the overly dramatic, as on Jarvis Cocker's \"A Drop of Nelson's Blood\" or Bono's excruciating \"A Dying Sailor to His Shipmates\" (Worst. Eulogy. Ever.), the results are stultifying.  Not everyone works blue (Eliza Carthy drops the word \"ass\" from \"Rolling Sea\", a curiously squeamish omission), nor does every song on Rogue's Gallery demand a hoisted stein, a cheery singalong, or a theatrical flourish. In fact, many songs muster startling gravity from bare voices. Lucinda Williams infuses \"Bonnie Portmore\" with a cracked solemnity, communicating the sadness of seeing a beautiful ship consigned to the scrapyard. But the droney keyboard behind her adds a superfluously cinematic backdrop that actively detracts from her performance. Mary Margaret O'Hara fares better on \"The Cry of Man\", her voice swelling and falling beautifully and unpredictably as if mimicking the motion of the sea, and Bryan Ferry's gruff sailor's voice joins in a callandresponse with Antony's otherworldly siren on \"Lowlands Low\", the contrast between them generating a peculiar drama of its own. In comparison, Andrea Corr's barely a cappella reading of \"Caroline and Her Young Sailor Bold\" sounds waterlogged; think Kristy McNichol in The Pirate Movie instead of Keira Knightley.Rogue's Gallery is almost by definition scattershot, alternating between discoveries and atrocities, crests and troughs. However, like Stay Awake, it is an immersive experience: Willner's attention to historical detail and his artists' derringdo absorb you fully into the world of these songs, without becoming dry or daunting. First and foremost these songs are entertainments, but taken together, they offer a useful corrective to the swashbuckling of the film, trading in the dark desires and darker doings of desperate seamen.  "}