{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9215/homepage_large.5d945c53.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Mouse on Mars","title":"Varcharz","text":"  The first line of any Mouse on Mars bio always says something about Jan St. Werner and Andi Toma meeting at a death metal concert. I think of this factoid whenever a loud and heavy MoM track comes on, something like Idilology's \"First:Break\" or Niun Niggung's \"Distroia\". While these tracks are obviously not \"metal\" in any sense, something about the way Mouse on Mars play with distortion and construct a godlike lowend thwack references the genre, however obliquely. And now, they've released an album on Ipecac, the label run by Mike Patton, who certainly knows from metal. Appropriately, Mouse on Mars give Patton their heaviest and loudest album yet. This is alleged to be their more experimental offering, while they simultaneously work on another record that furthers Radical Connector's pop experiments in collaboration with the Fall's Mark E. Smith. Radical Connector has its fans and it was certainly an original go at pop, taking riffs and hooks and melodies and wrapping them around sonics of baffling complexity but it only brought me with it about halfway. A few of the tunes still run through my head and I put the record on now and then, but large chunks of it I've forgotten. But this is a different sort of experimental album from what we've heard from these two before (and it is two drummer Dodo Nkishi is absent here). In a sense, Varcharz takes the bouncy instrumentals of Niun Niggung and transforms them into something colder, blockier, louder, and flatter. The heavy thunder is most apparent on \"D端端l\", which opens with a detuned bass riff run through a distortion pedal, recalling Lightning Bolt or Ruins if they were chained to a sequencing grid. It's a remarkably opaque and thick sound, and when during a break the spazzy electronic bleeps come pouring in, you begin to wonder how much more information can possibly be packed onto a CD. It's a terrifically fierce track that rocks harder than anything they've done.  This being Mouse on Mars, the aggressiveness is cut with an undercurrent of humor, as the big loping riff of \"D端端l\" sounds slightly lopsided and wrong. If Mouse on Mars has a unique identifier, it is this goofy, hobbling gait that always points to electronic music's more knowing new wave roots, the side of Ralf & Florian that repressed a smirk when they went on about robots. So while this record is their most jagged and noisy yet, everything is done in a similar playful spirit, the halfsmile helping to alleviate some of the fatigue that sets in when listening to the album straight through. It is, certainly, a tiring album, with thudding riffs caked with the sort of 8bit distortion that wears you out. \"Igoegowhygowego\", squishy funk that contains a winking reference to Giorgio Moroder's yawning and dramatic synth drone in Donna Summer's \"I Feel Love\", is a rare moment of levity.  Most of the time there's a lot going on and it can be difficult to pull the individual units of sound apart. If you heard Jan St. Werner's 2003 album Scrypt,there is a parallel here with the palette. There are no vocals, and few identifiable instruments; this is certainly a record born of machines and, I imagine, much of the raw material is computergenerated. For a band that began enamored with dub, letting instruments breathe while silence became another tool of composition, Mouse on Mars now seem concerned with density, trying to see how far they can go with layering without the whole thing unraveling. Turns out pretty far, but to what end, I'm not exactly sure. This is an impressive record in many respects, and its hooks and patterns only emerge after many plays, but it's also an oddly distant one. Which somehow seems appropriate to the subject matter. Varcharz is a tool, a weapon, not a place in which to live. "}