{"label":" Acute","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9216/homepage_large.e7e47fe0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Ike Yard","title":"1980-82 Collected","text":"  The NYCbased art rock collective Ike Yard emerged during the waning days of the No Wave movement, eventually becoming most noteworthy for being the first American group signed to Factory Records and for the fact that bass player Kenneth Compton reportedly once dated Madonna. But now as part of an ongoing mission to illuminate all the dark, neglected corners of the postpunk era Acute Records presents Ike Yard 198082 Collected. This comprehensive overview includes Ike Yard's selftitled LP for Factory America, their earlier Night After Night EP, and a generous assortment of previously unreleased live and studio rarities. And though it would probably be inaccurate to declare Ike Yard's work to have been particularly influential, on this collection their music appears to have aged quite well, as many of their jittery, postindustrial rhythms closely anticipate the thuggish motions of contemporary acts like Black Dice or Liars. Cribbing their name from a record sleeve in A Clockwork Orange, Ike Yard sculpted a doomladen experimental sound that drew heavily upon first wave Krautrock (particularly Can and Faust) and the postpunk dub maneuvers of PiL and Joy Division. Unlike No Wave's many unschooled or selftaught musicians, however, Ike Yard's Michael Diekmann and Fred Szymanski both had an academic background in music, studying Stockhausen and modern composition at the McColl Studio of Electronic Music at Brown. It's perhaps due to these academic origins, then, that much of Ike Yard's work matches their sinuous, bassheavy grooves with a rather dry, formalistic precision. This sense of clinical detachment is often accentuated by Stuart Argabright's clipped, semispoken vocals, his monochromatic announcements often struggling helplessly to compete against the dark music's forceful technological currents. Recorded virtually live with few overdubs, the Night After Night EP was originally released on the Belgian label Les Disques du Crépuscule in 1981. At this time the group were experimenting with various instrumental lineups, and beginning to incorporate early Roland and Korg MS20 drum machines with Argabright's live scrap metal percussion. Combined with Compton's loping, dubinflected bass lines, the interactive rhythms of tracks like opening \"Night After Night\" or the instrumental \"Motiv\" contain the echoes of Miles Davis' edgy 70s jazzfunk as well as Can's shapeshifting beat action. But tracks like the clattering, dissonant \"Cherish\" give a better hint at the direction Ike Yard would soon take, as their sound grew increasingly dependent upon the stark, alien textures of their modular analog electronics.  This evolution is apparent immediately on \"M. Kurtz\" and \"Loss\", the opening tracks from Ike Yard's 1982 Factory LP. On these later tracks, the music's cell structure is completely governed by the group's overlapping synthesized rhythms, with all other sonic and lyrical elements rooted in the tiny cracks between Ike Yard's densely compacted electronic pulsations. The Expressionist propulsion of \"Kino\" is shrouded by black veils of dense insect noise, while the aggressive minimalism of \"Half a God\" updates Suicide, with its lyrics (\"We hear the drums again and fall back in step again\") obedient to the music's martial gravity. One can only imagine what Madonna must have made of this onslaught.  According to Michael Diekmann's exhaustive liner notes, Ike Yard continued to write and record music at a ferocious pace following the release of their sole Factory album, but the group began to disintegrate before they could get the label interested in another release. This collection features four unreleased studio tracks, as well as an live track that was mixed live by New Order's Peter Hook while the two groups were on tour together. While these additional tracks do contain the occasional tantalizing song fragment or idea, they do little to improve upon the bulk of Ike Yard's slim discography, and will likely be only of interest to true diehards. Upon Ike Yard's dissolution in early 1983, the group's members went on to front various underground dance and hiphop projects, but largely abandoned their collective's avantgarde techniques and innovations. And judging by the documents gathered on 198082 Collected, this would seem to be our small loss.  "}