{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9217/homepage_large.246f5e9a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Uzeda","title":"Stella","text":" Considering its proximity to Touch and Go's 25th anniversary shindig, this reunion album couldn't drop at a more apropos time. Combining the sounds of Jesus Lizard, Girls Against Boys, and pretty much every Steve Albiniled band, Uzeda are essentially a T&G cover band with Kim Deal on vocals. And despite being the band's first album in eight years, Stella finds these Sicilians pummeling in midseason form, hitting every mark in their noise rock assault. Of course, it doesn't hurt that Albini's parked himself behind the boards, channeling reams of shitstomping rage with the twist of each knob. The teamup again works wonders as Albini injects a bristled edge into Uzeda's sound, which doesn't naturally exude an immediate pissedoff aura. Opener \"Wailing\" drags its clanking feet so laboriously and loosely it could almost qualify as shoegazeShellac. Giovanni Nicosia and Agostino Tilotta's jagged guitars casually stab at a plodding bassline, while frontwoman Giovanna Cacciola provides unintelligible singsong coos, a nursery rhyme told over a brewing storm. \"What I Meant When I Called Your Name\" tightens up this formula, swirling around a rough'n'tumble noiseblues riff and culminating in a femmeDavid Yow rant from Cacciola over screeching guitars. Occasionally though the band takes a chill pill, particularly when Cacciola's raspy vox combines with playful, more hookbased ax noodling to form fauxBreeders track \"Time Below Zero\". Unfortunately, such changeups come too seldom on Stella, and too many tracks here sound stuck in second gear. At times, Stella blurs the line between consistency and homogeneity, which is probably nitpicking except that eight tracks in less than half an hour leaves little to explore. Still, closer \"Steam, Rain and Other Stuff\" wraps up the record nicely, with a herkyjerky drum beat and Cacciola's howls summarizing the entire album in a threeminute curtain call. While an album able to be condensed into such little space reflects poorly on the band's dynamism, Stella would still make a nice addition to any noise rock fanatic's collection. "}