{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9220/homepage_large.e766d8a3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Gosling","title":"Here Is...","text":"  First things first: Ryan Gosling is not in this band. At least, if he is, he's not listed in the liner notes, which would seem like a pretty big oversight, given how the band's handlers are trying their hardest to position it as the Next Big Thing in alternative rock. You can really tell the band is trying, too: Each song bursts with aplomb, from fauxprophetic title to the anthemic choruses and indie ballads. Unfortunately, none of the songs on Here Is... live up to their own aspirations, instead settling for bland alternarock. Think one part Semisonic to two parts Flickerstick and you get the idea. If Gosling sound familiar, the generic songwriting might not be the only reason. In the late 1990s, Gosling were known as Loudermilk, and they played a harder edged brand of alternametal. When that genre fell from favor, the band punted, changing its name and sound with no one the wiser. Except that, well, they aren't any more interesting now. Maybe it's admirable that they're giving it another go, but to go through a transformation like this to end up playing just another derivative style of alternative rock seems like a waste. The band tries hard to show off its classic rock influences, but rely too much on imitating instead of updating. Layered backing vocals show that the band listens to Queen. Vague, perplexing metaphors nod to Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin (\"Worm Waltz\" boasts the lines, \"You can't keep the sun in a hole underground, so why does the worm feel so profound? He's in the ground.\") Hell, one track, \"The Burnout\", uses \"Bennie and the Jets\" as a bridge. But Gosling never does anything with these influences that you haven't heard everywhere from late90s alternative radio stations to recent beer and car commercials.  Make no mistake: Gosling have the potential to be huge. There are a lot of people out there that will love this band, love the bouncy singalongs, the brash vocals, and the justtoughenough guitars. Don't be surprised to hear their music on teen dramas or find it on \"Grey's Anatomy\". But as far as hooky poprock goes, there are plenty of bands to choose from, and Gosling do very little to entice the listener to choose them.  "}