{"label":" Catbird","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9225/homepage_large.9958ac73.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Tap Tap","title":"Lanzafame","text":"  Music blogs are totally the new solitaire. When I pad my midnoons with them, here's my mantra: Gimme gimme intelligent fandomcrit, just enough to make feverish mp3 consumption seem more sophisticated than gorging on Tootsie Rolls, right? But not all blogs worry with editorial panache; many are just harddriveclogging equivalents of the lunchmeat samplelady at the grocery store, recommending semifresh (and free) carcassmorsels. The reception of (deserving) blogger darlings Tap Tap has consisted mostly of subparagraphs that sound like ads for cologne and perfume knockoffs: If you like Band Name Here, then you'll love Tap Tap! Days (or hours) later, multiple other seconding blogs refer (sometimes twice) to \"reading\" about Tap Tap via such prior brief sloganentries. Folks, if that counts as reading, then the authors of parking tickets should be teaching advanced composition courses. The lack of a critical dimension in Tap Tap's paperless trail is due largely to how desperately talented frontman Thomas Sanders appears to be these songs seem forced into the world by a buckling, overcrowded brain. The popcraft exhibited is light enough and \"now\" enough to reduce the listener to boostermush on a first listen: perfect vouchfodder for the busy, scoopminded blogger. Tap Tap also juggles the freight of being a literal blogbaby: In a mess of conflictable interests, their record label is also a blog, run by a Pitchforklinking, PitchforkstafferMattLemay'sbandreleasing lover of the smart, yelpy, male white indie aesthetic. \"Ryan Catbirdseat,\" as he calls himself, is someone to whom I feel comfortable typing Destroyernerd emails, after we exchange disclaimers about our megalofty labelhead/CDreviewer roles. (His label even encourages directtoartist \"tipping,\" as if to offset his Dischordcaliber pricing and the fact that bloggers, out of a weird courtesy to each other, try to give away distinct songs, resulting in much of their consensusfaves' music being yankable without purchase.) And goshdamnit, at the last drunken staff meeting, both of my editors introduced two temporary imperatives: 1) stop mentioning Pitchfork in Pitchfork content, and 2) actually describe music instead of A) analyzing imagined politics supposedly swarming around said music, and B) listing other band names as shorthand for said description. But poor Tap Tap can't help that their name, probably coincidentally, is a perfect blend of the doubleword bandnaming phenom and the netbuzzed Tapes 'n Tapes and Clap Your Hands Say Yeah. Sure, they are totally in line with the many stellar smart, yelpy, male white indie bands with which Canada has lately blessed us. But nothing about Lanzafame sounds cannily preconceived (รก la the Bravery, et al) or tested on hipster focus groups.  Thomas Sanders and his Reading, England associates are the real things of mimicrycore, in that they are obviously influenced by acts predating Wolf Parade and Arcade Fire, despite the vocal and momentumdoling similarities to those fine outfits. Various tracks all but homage boybands beginning with Beach and Soft. \"Here Cometh\" is an arch offering of Kinks blues, while \"Off the Beaten Track\" imagines a bizarro Belle & Sebastian preoccupied with Kinks rock. Tap Tap will trigger the most vivid flashbacks in devotees of the founding fathers of the current smart yelpy male white indie aesthetic: New Zealand groups from the eighties. Taming psychedelia and punk into sloppy/pristine DIY pop, with more hooks than Leatherface's timeshare: that describes both Tall Dwarfs and (the more compact) Tap Tap. If you like Catbird Records, you'll love Flying Nun!  Reservations: The album employs one drum beat. The album contains sessionmuttering and little mistakes that besmirch the proceedings' ambition and class. The primitivehomemade vibe is more redundant than charming. Except for the forgettable finale, which might exist just to help Lanzafame hit the half hour mark, each song's quality is consistent, but the album is aurally incoherent, with engineering and fuzz levels of each instrument varying distractingly from track to track. Whatever, though, I could listen to Sanders sing \"can't\" like \"Kant\" all day, and all of the night. More infectious than viral, Tap Tap's promising debut revolutionizes nothing, and yet it sweetens almost any(whiteindie)thing.  "}