{"label":" Empyrean","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9227/homepage_large.affa6983.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Eric Matthews","title":"Foundation Sounds","text":"  The return of Eric Matthews feels like randomly hearing from an old friend for the first time in ten years. Maybe you wondered about that person from time to time, but you never expected to cross paths again. You thought they'd probably changed in all that time, but they really haven't. And as much as you hate to admit it, in spite of all that's happened, you're still pretty much the same, too. Which is to say: Where've you been, Eric? After leaving Cardinal, you kicked out two pretty good albums in the mid1990s and then disappeared after 97, only to suddenly resurface last year with a sevensong EP. And now, a year later, with a 17song album. With a fivesong EP attached to the limited edition. That is a ton of songs, and what's more, they sound pretty much exactly like the stuff you were releasing 10 years ago.Foundation Sounds is precisely what you'd expect from Eric Matthews: Meticulously crafted indie pop songs with fey vocals, sometimes harmonized, and occasional orchestration mostly in the form of trumpet. If you've heard Matthews' work, you already know what this sounds like; likewise, if you enjoyed his old stuff, you'll almost certainly like this as well.  Matthews might have considered splitting his 22 new songs into two albums, because my main problem with this record is that there's way too much of it. I keep getting lost in the running order, which also says something about the uniformity of the songs. \"Start of the Meltdown\", which deserves a lot of listens with its slowmotion horn arrangement and confoundingly memorable melody, is buried at track 13, and there's still more to come after that. The back end of the record is the most interesting stretch, actually, busting out the harpsichord for \"The Fly\", a quick romp through the garden of 60s orchpop, jaunty trumpet solo and all, and changing the feel up for closer \"Till This Story Ends\", a cavernous ballad that opens with a long, billowy cornet figure before Matthews brings his vocals in with lines like \"I don't see your face/ No soul, no sex, no oxygen.\"  The lyrics are all like that fragmented, somewhat impressionistic, and not terribly important to the overall success of the songs. The vocal usually seems intended as just another instrument, which works on and off. Opener \"Our House\" demonstrates both extremes, with a memorable hook redeeming an otherwise rather blah tune. It's odd when his melodies don't work, it's as though he's become a victim of his own formalism, writing notes before singing them to see if they catch the ear. \"The Death of in Between\", a mostly acoustic song with a brief horn part, is a perfect example. Its melody does the things a melody is supposed to do going up and down, balancing long notes against short ones but it's totally forgettable, delivered with studied awareness of where the notes are, but not what to do with them.  So if Matthews has picked up the baton from exactly where he left it, he's lost some of his running ability. But this goes partially back to the record's length if the lesseventful songs were cleared out, we'd have a much more solid overall outing. As it is, we've got an old friend back, still doing and saying all the same things, and it brings a strange mix of comfort and sadness. "}