{"label":" Kranky","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9231/homepage_large.aa58bc52.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Christina Carter","title":"Electrice","text":"  Christina Carter has been so prolific over her 15plus year career both as a member of Charalambides and with her various solo ventures that it might seem like the law of averages should dictate that she is overdue for an outright misfire. Yet with her latest solo release Electrice, Carter has once again bucked the odds, displaying anew her uncommon ability to slip almost invisibly between the spheres of the subconscious and the waking world. As with much of her work, Electrice is a study in quiet contrasts born of improvisation, but carefully edited and sculpted at the mixing board with layered vocal overdubs and timestretching sonic effects. Recorded and mixed by Carter herself in Northampton, Mass., the album's four extended drones each share a profound sense of dislocation and existential yearning, as though these ethereal songs were constructed in full knowledge of their own fragility and impermanence. Carter's music has always been marked by certain simplicity of form, and on Electrice she has further refined that simplicity by recording all these songs in the same key and using the same guitar tuning. Even with these selfimposed restrictions, however, her music sounds nothing like the product of a closed system. Unlike the more folkbased improvisations that appeared on her previous Kranky solo collection Living Contact, Carter here makes fuller use of her electric guitar's resonant frequencies, allowing her pianolike chords to linger and fold back upon themselves until they shape a fabric of elongated, overlapping drones. Against this hushed backdrop Carter's multitracked voice acquires an openended shimmer her oftenwordless vocals so intertwined with her abstract guitar figures that at points it becomes difficult to gauge which is which. \"My language will not die/ A second death/ It is gone,\" sings Carter on the transfixing opener \"Second Death\", perhaps as a means of giving voice to the ephemeral nature of the improviser's art. Soon enough her words do indeed fall away, her song slowly dissolving into a circular eddy of chiming guitar overtones and spectral wailing. Without losing their patient stride, her repeating chords then segue naturally into the following \"Moving Intercepted\". On this track the album's climate of dispossession takes a metaphysical turn, with Carter appearing to address an audience of unseen spirits as she asks, \"Will I be moving? Will I be undone? Do you think the body is a comfort?\" with expectant fervor.  Conversely, the lyrics of \"Yellow Pine\" are stripped of all forward action, as Carter instead turns inward to offer what resembles a Gertrude Stein rhythmic tone poem. Underscored by flickering, unidentifiable drones, the piece appears shadowed by a dark, almost impassable stillness. \"Yellow dress/ All the time/ Yellow pine/ No pines,\" Carter sings in an otherworldly, trancelike whisper, as though spontaneously delivering the words as they are revealed to her, the objects of the lyrics seemingly as mysterious to herself as they are to the listener. This sense of channeling is further confirmed by album closer \"Words Are Not My Own\", which finds Carter offering her individual song back to universal wellspring from which it came, asking the listener, \"Are your words my words?\" It's another eerie, captivating performance from an artist whose career is studded with such memorable séances. And as long as she's to retain such ready access to this fertile spiritual realm, perhaps Carter will prove able to postpone that midcareer slump indefinitely.  "}