{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9244/homepage_large.01acfee8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sam Ubl","artist":"Adem","title":"Love & Other Planets","text":" A sucker for all things scifi and spacerelated, and a believer in most theories about reptoids, I'm bound to love anything with Planets in the title. Unfortunately, monoaural Adem's Love and Other Planets essays few (original) guesses about the Universe's mysteries it's an album about love and space that sounds an awful lot like, well, an album about love and love. The jacket for Homesongs, Adem's wellliked solo debut from two years ago, featured two hybrid bugroosterhuman creatures, one holding an umbrella, floating high above a sepiatoned cloudscape. It wasn't extraterrestrial, but it got up higher than this gravityafflicted followup. It seems a natural progression, at any rate. One seldom finds nuance screaming across the galaxy. Love is a gentler affair than its predecessor, perfect for hangovers and clear, breezy September mornings (I'm not even joking). Adem's breathy, pubdued folk comes two ways: soft and Downysoft. \"Launch Yourself\", a soggy pastoral driven by glockenspiel and brushed drums, generates the most momentum of any track, which ought to tell you everything. But energy, besides being a function of rhythm, is also an act of will, and a strong will is something Adem lacks. Love's percussion, for instance, is a shot in the dark: \"X Is for Kisses\" is dappled with lovable justrushed staccato smacks, like Adem was tapping on his knee in the booth. I wish I hadn't figured out the song's notsodynomite lyrical gag, though: starting from A, every line begins with a letter one higher than the last, all the way up to Z, twice.  The record crests early (track five of 12) when Adem breaks from his usual sweater guy mumble to deliver a sort of album motto: \"On a clear night/ If you look close enough/ You can just make out love/ And other planets/ We are not alone.\" But his voice is otherwise too retiring to animate such lyrical deadweight. Wallpaper your room with it when, on \"You and Moon\", which chimes like a clock shop come alive, he channels Robert Wyatt. Or let it bore you into a peaceful trance on \"Launch Yourself.\" But for the kind of soulcaressing folk bobbins Adem aspires to deliver, go with Grizzly Bear. "}