{"label":" Relapse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9250/homepage_large.a63e1e34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Cory D. Byrom","artist":"Jucifer","title":"If Thine Enemy Hunger","text":" Athens, Geo.'s Jucifer were cranking out thudrock for the PBR elite long before most of the current breed of densely fuzzed capitalRRock bands were even conceived, a fact that's easy to forget when you look at their recorded output to date. A lot of what Jucifer do is heavy and some of it is pretty metal, but they also have a sludgy alternative element that almost no one pulls off any more. There's a lot of that on If Thine Enemy Hunger, the group's Relapse debut, which sounds as if it was recorded in the mid90s. The record's kind of fascinating, really: Jucifer hit the mark so accurately with some of these songs that it almost makes me nostalgic. There's more than a little grunge here, and some of the songs are a little indistinguishable, but considering that most of the sounds on the disc come from one of three sources (guitar, drums, vocals), they manage to squeeze variety in when it counts. Consider the riotgrunge of \"Antietam\", which employs, of all things, a banjo in the verses before bursting into crackledvoice, screeching chorus that would make L7 proud. But then they can also stand shouldertoshoulder with the Melvins on tracks like the albumopening \"She Ties the Deep\", a sevenplusminute dirge of punctuated guitar rumbling and sleepy vocals. If you want something a little catchier, on \"Pontius of Palia\" vocalist Amber Valentine belts out the lines with a sneer but her voice's melodicism belies any contempt. She can sound syrupy sweet or dark and dour depending on the song, either contrasting or blending in with the thick fuzz of the guitar.  If only there were one or two more upbeat numbers here to break up the monotony. The disc's 15 tracks range from mildly energetic to borderline dozeworthy, and pushing a few of the more garageinfluenced numbers up another notch or two would help the whole disc. Fifteen songs is a lot, really, especially for a pony with two tricks at most. But whatever; they use those two tricks to pull in a whole mess of grungemetal influences and turn them into something that's pretty uniquely theirs, so I guess hitting the skip button every now and then isn't the worst thing in the world. "}