{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9254/homepage_large.a374beaa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Total 7","text":"  Can it really be five years since Kompakt's Total 3 compilation so dramatically won over the world at large to Germany's brand of minimal house? Listening to that seminal record backtoback with Total 7 Kompakt's latest roundup of vinyl releases and exclusive tracks the distance feels negligible. In fact, the patient unfurling of the label's sonic signature not to mention its continuing currency in dance circles is testament to the curious slowness with which this decade marches forward: While the label remains at the forefront of house and techno, it has done so by entrenching itself at the center of frantic backandforth movements within German dance music circles, shoring up its perennial fashionability rather than indulging in trailblazing daring. Inevitably, this latest 2xCD overview lacks the air of excitement and anticipation which surrounded earlier editions that sense that Kompakt's vision was expanding forever outward, stealing and digesting a wealth of ideas from across the pop and dance music landscape. Having undergone no radical stylistic overhauls, the label's output now has the comforting familiarity of an old friend. Which is a shame, as Total 7 is as strong as any in the series to date, besting its immediate predecessor in the consistency of its enchantment there is something to like in all 24 tracks here, itself a quietly remarkable feat. Ranging from the cheerful demolition of Hug's aptlytitled \"The Happy Monster\" to the shimmering calm of Superpitcher's \"Tonite\", Total 7 exhibits an unassuming diversity nearly as broad as the German house spectrum itself, but such openmindedness sounds less startling than you'd expect. Inclusions are cherrypicked from numerous sublabels the selfexplanatory Kompakt Pop, the muscular surge of the Speicher series, and the thick, spiky techhouse of recent addition K2 but here the divisions between the sublabels feel arbitrary, more shifts in emphasis than radical transformations of identity. For once, there are no harshly grating noise experiments, but conversely the occasional flirtations with pop songfulness are more measured than before; while vocals grace several tracks, they are deployed strictly to complement the underlying propulsive grooves rather than attract attention to themselves. Simultaneously, the smattering of tracks from the K2 imprint reveal a more confident mastery of the straightforward dancefloor bomb, from the chugging organ melodrama of Steadycam's \"KnockKneed\" to the ubiquitous snakehip wiggle of Gui Boratto's \"Arquipélago\".  But this is not where the label's heart lies. The drifting melancholy of Kontrast's \"Grey Skies to Blue\", the aching chords of Jonas Bering's \"Melanie\", the sparkling technicolor chimeloop confectionary of SCSI9's \"When She Said Goodbye\", and the tremulous fragility of the Rice Twins' \"For Penny & Alexis\" are testament to the solidity of Kompakt's core aesthetic. All variations around a theme of Detroitinspired softcentred emotionalism, those tracks' sleekly gentle beats and deliquescing synth patterns unambiguously choose romanticism over innovation and tear ducts over sweat glands. This willingness to revel in hypermelodic soppiness has always been a Kompakt callingcard, but never has it seemed to define the label's identity so thoroughly as it does now. Not that we should complain I suspect this particular sonic blueprint will remain heartmeltingly seductive no matter how many Total compilations we are blessed with. And there are glimpses of life and change even here: The compilation's best track, the Field's \"Over the Ice\", twists this overbearing emotionalism into shapes hitherto unseen, with vocal samples from what appears to be Kate Bush's \"Under Ice\" cut up and looped into a strobing, sighing house epic, glistening with intermingled grief and longing.  "}