{"label":" Touch and Go","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9256/homepage_large.ccace837.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"The Fix","title":"At the Speed of Twisted Thought","text":"  Do the math: 1981's 16yearold boy is 41 years old today. Old enough to have his own 16yearold. Maybe on Friday nights he lets the guy stay out late so his high school band can cover \"Young Till I Die\" in a VFW hall. Or maybe he covers something else, cause his dad wrote \"Young Till I Die\". The firstwave hardcore boys and girls are now grown and, like their parents, are out there insisting that their days were the best days, and their kids are now, like their parents once did, recoiling in horror. Who wouldn't cringe at Mike Watt, cruising in his beatup van, palpably longing for his Minutemen days in We Jam Econo, or at the sight of the corpseparade over at CBGB a dying rock club embalming itself with the flopsweat of old men trying to act young again. This kind of generational selfpromotion is inevitable, and disappointing only in how it sucks the vitality out of the very music and era these guys would like to promote. Touch and Go dodged this quandary a few weeks back by throwing a big show in honor of their 25 years, and instead of talking endlessly about how great those years were, had some of the major figures come out and demonstrate. Conspicuously not among those who reunited in salute of the label were the Fix, but it's no wonder; they saw hardcore as a movement coming apart as far back as 1982. They broke up that year, on New Year's Day. In their liners to At the Speed of Twisted Thought, they remember the era like so: \"Iconoclasm gave way to style and bands of punks became every bit as intolerant of dissent as the society and pop culture that we all purported to wage war against.\" These days it's heresy to doubt the legend status of bands from this era, and the Fix's first single goes for upwards of $1,700 on eBay. Time has proved them more or less right.  Still, New Year's Day 1982 was probably a little premature to call it quits. Fellow area stalwarts the Necros limped all the way to 89, and in the Midwest alone, Negative Approach, Articles of Faith, Hüsker Dü, and the Meatmen were all still going or yet to come. But the Fix were genre purists; At the Speed of Twisted Thought harkens not to 1981's Teen Idles or Minor Threat records, not the Necros, not even Black Flag, but one band only Bad Brains.  Tesco Vee apocryphally wrote, in an early T&G fanzine, that the Fix ought to be known as the band that played \"at the speed of twisted thought.\" Indeed: Craig Calvert, their guitarist, played impossibly fast but almost psychedelically, playfully ripping fourchord melodies across scales, squirting out bursts of noise between verses (Byron Coley writes in the liners that \"the Fix seemed to have an interest or a grasp or something on fundamentals\"); like Dr. Know of the Bad Brains, he was a virtuoso cut loose, and one of only a handful of hardcore stringsmen able to play way faster than his own drummer.  The Fix's Steve Miller couldn't sing for shit (Coley again: \"a kind of a rippedthroat formalism\") on his best days he was Guy Picciotto from Rites of Spring, on his worst John Brannon from Negative Approach but he figured out how to thrash early on. \"Off to War\"'s chorus, which starts the next line before the last one's finished, is one of 1982's best \"Everybody goes/ Everybody fights/ Everybody goes/ Everybody dies\" and it's underpinned by a rising bass line that obliterates the whole bridge even as it hits the end. \"Famous\" is noteperfect Bad Brains, down to rapidly possessed vocal and solidstate guitar tone, Miller's voice stripped raw, totally urgent nonetheless.  The Fix were just a little off a few degrees off the orthodoxy, perverters of the \"style\" they so deplored in their peers. They're gone, and good for them for not coming back.  "}