{"label":" Load","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9269/homepage_large.020c9c42.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Noxagt","title":"Noxagt","text":"  The coolest thing about the first two albums of bludgeoning mathmetal instrumentals by Norwegian trio Noxagt is that they were made without a guitar. Nils Erga's hardsawing viola could certainly sound like a guitar, and sometimes like an actual viola, but mostly it spewed an unidentifiable mix of winding screech and stubbly drone over Kjetil D. Brandsdal's earthdigging bass and Jan Christian L. Kyvik's precision drum pummel. The aesthetic shift on the cover of Noxagt's selftitled third album instead of shadowy Nordic imagery, we get a pinup of ripped buttocks in bandlogo underwear suggests something has changed. Something has: Erga has been replaced by guitarist Anders Hana, Brandsdal's bandmate in jazznoise juggernaut Ultralyd. Like the oddly blunt cover art, Hana announces himself immediately. The albumopening \"Histrionix\" begins with his blistering, rightangled chords, the kind of classically straight move Erga generally avoided. Yet the overall effect of this key lineup change is smaller than one might expect. Certainly Noxagt's sonic affinities are clearer than before: the triangular formulas of Oxes and early Don Caballero, the hyper prog of Ruins and Lightning Bolt, and the dark crescendos of Scandinavian metal are all more discernible here, mostly due to Hana's simpler, riffbending style. But the trio's essential elements lumbering rhythms, bombastic crashes, a mean cross of tight pound and blurring volume remain powerfully intact.  On \"Wall's End\", Hana's weighty noodlings recall Ian Williams' heavier moments, while Brandsdal and Kyvik plod forward like a Bmovie robot leaving citysized footprints until his batteries run out. The exploratory \"Soft Sugar\" meanders under Hana's reverberating slashes until a thunderous Brandsdal loop forges an atmosphere that Hana rolls through like a gathering storm cloud. Later, the 12minute \"Impious One\" is Noxagt at its most symphonic. Here, Hana's messiest feedback sprays noise over the rhythm section's pooky lurch.  The only real misstep on Noxagt is \"Ninety Parallels Ago\", a slowmotion crawl that attempts momentum through lunging pauses, but never quite gathers steam. Still, Noxagt's musical gravity is so alluring that even its rare lulls feel earned and strangely hypnotic, like the sweaty bliss of a heavylegged jog after a marathon workout.  It also doesn't hurt that the best track immediately follows: The algebraic \"Coefficient Ascender\" launches fullspeed into a metalnoise maelstrom, with the trio sprinting up its own wall of sound like a waterfall in reverse. Heavy with black rhythm yet shining with vivid noise, the track offers a nutshell of this daunting group's past and future, both of which remain blindingly bright.  "}