{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9272/homepage_large.a164cef1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"DJ Shadow","title":"The Outsider","text":"  On his first two albums, DJ Shadow mired in memories of Eric B., Brian Eno, and the Meters seemed worlds away from the conceits of mainstream rap. But underneath his detached exterior lies all the egoism and paranoia of the best hiphop stars: \"There are songs on [The Outsider] that I think blow away almost anything else I've ever done. One thing’s for sure it's going to make it very difficult for people to imitate my sound,\" Shadow posted on his website. It wasn't just talk. His new album slyly sabotages the biters: Who'd be dumb enough to copycat all this watereddown exotica and epileptic hyphy? It'd be impossible to \"sound\" like Shadow anyway, since there's no consistency (or any distinctive elements, really) to be found here. In fact, The Outsider may be one of the least cohesive records this year. Its total incoherence is actually kind of impressive: It's somehow even less structured than both the motley singles comp Preemptive Strike, and UNKLE's Psyence Fiction, which managed to begin with Kool G Rap and end with Metallica's bassist. So then, The Outsider makes a pretty apt title: This album should alienate virtually everyone who's ever been a Shadow fan. Trance divas won't tolerate its madcap hyphy collaborations, cratediggers will shun its middling altrock tributes, and everyone else will wonder why samples and breaks are replaced by lukewarm synth washes. Nearly every track seems like a rote genre exercise, as if Shadow spent the past four years perfecting a parlor trick. Granted, The Outsider's hiphop tracks are better than its rockinfluenced ones, but that's a backhanded compliment: Shadow's tracks are so dense and claustrophobic that even the most manic MCs Keak Da Sneak, the Federation, and David Banner falter amidst the onslaught.  That said, the production is sometimes engrossing, and occasionally more: Both \"3 Freaks\" and \"Turf Dancing\" at times flirt with something close to genius, popping with burped blips, convulsive beats, and synthesized froth. The grinding mixes echo everything from Too $hort to Computer World, and the psychotically dour \"Keep 'Em Close\" spreads cokedout cant over submarine sonar and icy departmentstore piano. But all these songs succumb to lazy speaksing choruses that dull the clinical anger of their verses.  The record peaks with David Banner's elegy to New Orleans. Part séance, part TVmovie, Banner's performance perversely resembles Katrina itself: Everything gets a hell of a lot whiter when it's over. Suddenly, the highadrenaline hiphop bids us adieu, to be replaced mostly by monotonous altrock instrumentals that play like a tour through mid90s KROQ playlists. The Martin Denny vibe (complete with birdcalls!) of \"The Tiger\" is completely insufferable; the Southeast Asian strings of \"Triplicate/Something Happened That Day\" are littered with amateur field recordings; and while \"You Made It\" (featuring Charalambides' Christina Carter) is patently ridiculous, at least its ostentatious spokenword will be familiar to Shadow fans. The same can't be said of \"Erase You\"'s insipid Britpop bullshit. The only rocktinged success here is \"Artifact\" and its smoldering acceleration, funk synths, and pentup thrash might as well be a mashup of the Count Five and Bad Brains.  Again, most listeners won't have the luxury of praising or penalizing Shadow for his efforts. It's difficult to even discern whether his recent interest in pop production might prove rewarding with the benefit of hindsight. Nearly everything this record offers from the garbled hyphy to the Private Press soundalikes is lackluster, if not downright disappointing. Incoherence is not necessarily a fatal flaw, but accompanied by tedium and confusion, The Outsider sounds like a chore to record, to listen to, and to review.  "}