{"label":" ATO","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9284/homepage_large.c7d41fa0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"My Morning Jacket","title":"Okonokos","text":"  Reportedly, My Morning Jacket hate being labeled Southern rock. Who can blame them? Their ambitions transcend genre tags, and besides, Louisville, the band's hometown, is located in Northern Kentucky and is arguably more Midwestern than Southern. So it can't be a coincidence that for their firstever live album, curiously called Okonokos, My Morning Jacket chose to record their performance at classicrock homestead the Fillmore West in San Francisco, about as far west as you can get from Kentucky without getting wet. Their aim seems to be to prove that their brand of rural classic rock, abandonedsilo reverb, and farmyard psychedelia can connect anywhere across the U.S. If they're trying to avoid the Southern rock tag, what are they striving for? Okonokos shows the band trying to find out. Z positioned them as one of few contemporary bands that could appeal to a broad swath of the populace, from indie kids to frat boys to soccer moms to older listeners wondering why they don't make 'em like Led Zeppelin IV anymore. On stage, MMJ shed their regional associations and their signature reverb, but they're still an American band, reinventing classic rock as a bluegrassroots movement. The Skynyrdisms remain, but My Morning Jacket have added Zepheavy riffs, Springsteenian grandeur, Bonnarooready jams, and breezy SoCal pop into the mix, while retaining an enigmatic presence reminiscent of earliest R.E.M. So the music on Okonokos never sounds vague or really even placeless, but instead has a jolt of fresh energy. The current lineup may be the band's best and most dynamic yet: disciplined enough to love the sound of every instrument clicking into place, as on \"One Big Holiday\", but also restless enough to keep the songs constantly shifting. The grandiose \"It Beats 4 U\" launches into its strange whistling bridge (reminiscent of Goldfrapp'sFelt Mountain) before closing out with Patrick Hallahan's driving snareled groove. It's a pretty neat sequence, but never feels showy or disconnected. Similarly, the reggae strut of \"Off the Record\" dissipates into a long, moody outro that swirls around the stageset flora, sounding looser and less directed than the studio version, as if the band made that transition on a collective whim.  My Morning Jacket's move away from a regional sound has been gradually progressing from the rural sounds of At Dawn and The Tennessee Fire with their jumbles of guitar, banjo, harmonica, and reverb to the noodlier It Still Moves and the more electric, eclectic Z. So it's no surprise that the older material on Okonokos sounds most revitalized since it must be updated most dramatically to fit the band's increasingly expansive sound. Standouts \"The Way That He Sings\", \"Xmas Curtain\", and \"Lowdown\" are chirpy and bright without their original reverb. And nothing else on these two discs beats \"O Is the One That Is Real\" for its fierce rock assault, with singer Jim James' best performance of the evening propelled by Hallahan's slicing high hat and Bo Koster's noirish keyboards.  Nevertheless, Okonokos still feels strangely unfulfilling, never quite living up to My Morning Jacket's reputation as one of the best live acts around. James botches the big moment on opener \"Wordless Chorus\", overselling those climactic yawps so they come out like outoftune brays. \"Runthru\" has an enormous riff that works well in this setting, but that theatrical grandeur, as well as the explosion of distortion, only underscores how silly the song is: \"Oh shit run,\" James sings, with complete seriousness, \"oh shit run through the ghetto.\" \"Gideon\" jams aimlessly, and \"Mahgeeta\" never seems to end.  Any live show will inevitably have crests and valleys, but besides these specific performances, Okonokos disappoints on a more general level: It too seldom sounds like an actual live album. There's almost no interaction between the performers and their audience: James never addresses the crowd and crowd noise is mostly inaudible except during the intervals between songs. Furthermore, the set list favors recent songs over older materials, which means there are fewer opportunities for dramatic reinterpretations. Aside from a few moments when they achieve a barreling momentum or hit a particularly tight groove, My Morning Jacket follow the prescribed routes set by the studio versions, sounding occasionally more intense but too often predictable in their course. These are minor complaints, as that respectable rating attests, but taken together, these shortcomings prevent listeners from getting any real sense of who these musicians are individually and collectively beyond what they could have learned from listening to the studio albums.  "}