{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/13324/homepage_large.1e877d4a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Four Tet","title":"Remixes","text":" Kieran Hebden started in the remix game in the late1990s, when, in the indie world, the technique was at its commercial apex, with reconstructed tracks frequently dribbling out on EPs, 12\"s, or compilations. Remixing is now as popular as ever, but filesharing has pushed it into a different realm less a retailready statement and more something for the truly committed to track down.That Hebden has never tired of remixes, and has done them steadily over the years, is not surprising they seem to suit his aesthetic well. His DJ mixes suggest the guy has good ears, the first qualification for a good remixer. And despite his forays into improv and his Fridge roots in instrumental rock, he's way schooled on genres (drum'n'bass, hiphop) in which the remix is long embedded. So this 2xCD set collecting highlights from the remixes Hebden's performed and the remixes he's received is of more than passing interest, since it's coming from a guy who's put a lot of thought into something that can so often be rote.If Four Tet's remixing of other artists has a defining characteristic, it's that he tends to bring the disorienting psychedelic aspects of the track to the foreground. Never a 4/4 kind of guy, Hebden likes to give tracks a shove, knock them off balance, and see which remaining elements keep the forward momentum. When he's at his best, and especially given a song I'm only soso on to begin with, Hebden contributions are actually an improvement.His spin on Radiohead's \"Scatterbrain\" (retitled \"Skttrbrain\") strips away most of the instruments save skittering twostep drums and what sounds like a recording of a drunken stumble through a junk shop, letting Thom Yorke's voice float above the fray, weightless. Hebden also transforms Madvillian's \"Money Folder\", as he chucks the loping jazzhop and replaces it with a dense assemblage of neoelectro synths that crowd out the vocal and add a layer of anxiety. The makeover of Madvillian's \"Great Day\" is even more dramatic, with sliding backward guitars and indistinct fragments of percussion dropping the vocal into a bad film print of a forgotten lowbudget Hong Kong film.Surprisingly effective is the epic 11minute mix of Beth Orton's \"Carmella\", an organic drag'n'drop collage that turns snaky guitar and thrusting drums on a Joni Mitchell melody to transform it into a pleasingly broken bit of electronic folk. In general, Disc One is a good selection of Four Tet remixes, avoiding tracks where Hebden's love of the heavy pour can overwhelm a delicate song, as it did on two awkward takes on Juana Molina's \"Salvese Quien Pueda\" (not included here) released last year.The second disc, where Hebden is remixed, is less interesting. A number of tracks come from kindred spirits who share Four Tet's aesthetic and perfer intergenre tweaks over rethinking the tracks' original purpose. Both Manitoba and Koushik, for example, remix \"Hilarious Movie of the 90's\". The former's version, with its sentimental vocal cupup and fastforward glitches, has a certain emotional tug but no real arc; Koushik, meanwhile, spins gentle indie pop in the Plug Research vein, complete with his voice and a new melody, but it never gels. Rapper Percee P adds rhymes to two versions of \"A Joy\" that have no real reason to exist. \"It's the legendary Percee P, reppin' with my man Koushik,\" which ends the latter's remix, isn't the type of phrase to send battleready opponents running. Still, of the 24 tracks total included in these two discs, at least 10 compel repeat plays a pretty good ratio as these things go. Four Tet is a remix true believer, which makes a difference. "}