{"label":" Sounds Familyre","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13625/homepage_large.461f7520.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Wovenhand","title":"Mosaic","text":" Articles about David Eugene Edwards former frontman of 16 Horsepower and ringleader of the revolving door project Wovenhand use phrases like \"evangelical Christian\" and \"the fire and brimstone Christianity of America's heartland.\" It's expected: In this decade, especially in this country and especially with a president that treats religion like a popular mandate to run amuck it's hard to write seriously about Christian devotion in a rockandfolk context without being seen as a white religious zealot on a proselytizer's stump. That's especially true if, as with Edwards, one shares the last name of the Massachusetts minister who, in 1734, fueled The Great Awakening by inventing modern revivalism.But Edwards is a songwriter on a completely different tip. He has little but his Christian faith and the confidence of his convictions and their concomitant questions to guide him. He's not a minister, and he's neither aiming from nor for the Heartland. Mosaic, the third proper album from Wovenhand and the first since the dissolution of 16 Horsepower, makes that very clear: Though most of the songs here are based in archetypical Americana banjo, acoustic guitar and massive church organ swells, Edwards borrows heavily from European Christianity for source material and on European tradition for instrumentation.\"Swedish Purse\", an ode to Edwards' wife and God, lifts its melody from a medieval hymn. \"Dirty Blue\" plays primarily on violin, acoustic guitar, and percussion, but its staggered time signature and chiseled staccato violin lines speak more to Balkan than American folk. That song's heavy reliance on symbolism \"the book of numbers,\" amber rings, and the bells of Leuven, Belgium runs counter to evangelical Christianity's literalist dogma. The album's most exquisite moment, \"Truly Golden\", was even written by Edwards' Belgian guitarist, Peter Van Laerhoven. It seems Edwards who has recorded with Daniel Smith in the past has found a transcontinental network devoted to the questions of faith that permeate his songwriting, and by now its \"Americana heartland\" only on the most fundamental level.As such, Mosaic rarely sounds or reads like a pilgrim meditation of faith: \"Slota Prow\" buries Edwards' voice in an industrial din, an indecisive violin line split somewhere between sprightly and doleful slicing through his imprecations. It's more Pyschic TV than Sun Records, spirituality literally and metaphorically marred by supreme secular woe via dissonance. Such erudite extroversion doubles when Edwards delivers the song's second verse in his invented language and segues seamlessly into \"Full Armour\", an extended metaphor for the divine protection Edwards feels in his God. These images are not an \"Old Rugged Cross\" redux.They are offered as Edwards': His words are his psalms, open to empathy, not instruction. Pedagogy only appears on \"Twig\": \"Eternal creator of the world/ Who rules the day/ Who rules the night,\" Edwards intones. His voice echoes as though sung from the basilica of Milan Cathedral, the spiritual domain of Saint Ambrose, the fourth century bishop that wrote them.But Edwards' increasing distance from the American mantle that made 16 Horsepower so mighty and resilient does leave something to be desired: Songs like Horsepower's \"Blessed Persistence\" showcased his ability to work within an American primitive framework raised by songwriters like Johnny Cash, a troubleman grappling with hell and heaven. Very little on Mosaic pushes that zone of familiarity and immediacy into new contexts, choosing instead to reroute those questions through different musical molds and associations. But Edwards' heart and soul are still here, questioning, wondering and waiting, \"New Morning on the stereo…inside the home [where] the folk pine grow.\" "}