{"label":" Hydra Head","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9295/homepage_large.788a874d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Xasthur","title":"Subliminal Genocide","text":" Strange things are a foot in the bowels of hell: After more than a decade of eluding nonmetal ears, Xasthur has stepped outside the extreme music tinderbox for his bonerattling fifth album, Subliminal Genocide. Comprised solely of Scott Conner, aka Malefic, Xasthur's U.S. black metal first received crossover attention for contributions to Sunn 0)))'s Black One: Malefic's coffined presence, along with vocal work by fellow Twilight traveler Leviathan (aka Wrest), is a huge part of what catapulted that album to acclaim. Well, that was then. Now, jumping Southern Lord's ship, he's signed to Los Angelesbased, Aaron Turnerrun Hydra Head, who also picked up the excellent oneman Swedish black metal band, Heresi. But he's hardly slowed down to smell the hemlock: He already promises a newer, stronger Hydra Head album, Defective Epitaph, in 2007 and Battle Kommand's reissuing 2001's A Gate Through Bloodstained Mirrors, Moribund's putting out a threesong eponymous Xasthur mini CD (reportedly his last music for the label), and there are splits with Striborg, etc., in the works. No matter how small the relocation to Hydra Head may seem, Subliminal Genocide's already popping up in record store bins Bestial Onslaught, Total Holocaust, and the mighty Moribund Cult couldn't always reach. Plus, the frequency tweak's bigger than one dude: Xasthur's appearance on a label not generally known for releasing black metal, speaks volumes about recent overlaps and reconfigurations that go far beyond whatever folks term \"hipster metal.\" For instance: The legitimately legendary Norwegian black metal group Immortal have a new lineup and are scheduled to play a couple summer gigs in L.A. and New York. Seriously, that Immortal.  Something to keep in mind and possibly check at the door is your perception of black metal, which may be skewed by the corpsepaint and burnt churches documented in Michael Moynihan's Vargcentric book, Lords of Chaos: The Bloody Rise of the Satanic Metal Underground. Yes, it's certainly a fun read, but going on Moynihan's not entirely accurate history alone is akin to consecrating Michael Azerrad's Our Band Could Be Your Life as the bona fide Bible of America's \"indie underground,\" circa 19811991, though he barely mentions...Bad Brains, Pixies, Dead Kennedys, Swans, et al.  Even wizened souls who've memorized buzzing guitar tabs and ballsy \"Kathaarian Life Code\" drum fills might be surprised by what's afoot in the US of A this isn't grandma's Norwegian/European black metal. Malefic owes a topical aesthetic resemblance to Burzum or Graveland, but compressed into beautiful bedroom recordings, and sans the neonazism. Okay, that's the unsavory side of certain black metal brambles: Political/personal beliefs can get scary (and cartoonish) fast. Like other popular oneman U.S. black metal musicians, though, Malefic seems more about a general gloomanddoom Nietszche trip.  Malefic's always been a great producer, a master of bleak ambiance. On the great 2002 album, Nocturnal Poisoning, he suffocated sound, submerging each detail in a grey haze. Subliminal Genocide is even more brutally piercing its corners are sharp, shrieking, petulant, and dense. Consider it the sonic equivalent of a beautiful case of seasonal affective disorder during a locust invasion (\"it's raining murder!\"). To create that patented quicksand cocoon, he uses sundry effects and pedals, cello, guitar (classical acoustic and electric) and bass, keyboards, an army of drum machines, and some mics to capture his brilliant howl. There's a lot of music here (61 minutes, to be almost exact) and Malefic wisely wanted it to be heard as a whole divided into sections the cumulative effect's wasted.  It opens with \"Disharmonic Convergence\", a hushed chamber piece rolling, drunken boat keys that dissolves into the 13minute \"Prison Of Mirrors\", a showcase for Malefic's quintessential layering of muddy guitars, gothy arpeggios, amazing deathbreath vocals, and swooping drum machines under a funeral moon. Vocally, Malefic approximates a possessed raven tracking a blaze in the sky with Edger Allan Poe (should be noted: his voice is always dead on).  Malefic knows nuance, introducing briefer ambient bits like \"Pyramid of Skulls\" to bridge the denser tracks. Or, a few longer compositions like \"Arcane and Misanthropic Projection\" drift through a downcast mild beauty complete with expressive guitar soloing before promptly exploding. \"Malice Hidden in Surrealism\"'s a waning guitar exeunt that slowly distorts into a creeping death stew that could've come out of New Zealand in the early 90s. And the somber strums of \"Loss and Inner Distortion\" has a few pagan folk qualities. Three cheers for variation, but Xasthur's always sounded best clogging up, possessing, and devouring space: see \"Beauty Is Only Razor Deep\" drums become gentle directive lulls into a flanged choir of fallen angels (housed in a saltcast beehive).  Caveat: If Subliminal Genocide's your first black metal album, you might find it a bit repetitious. It's not. Listen closely. A singular mothbitten patterns emerges eventually even the roughest seasickness gains an essential momentum. Really, as days shorten, cool breezes drift down from the north, and leaves head south, you'll be hard pressed to find a chillier, more blasted falltoRevelations transition.  "}