{"label":" Numero Group","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9300/homepage_large.fe00d808.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Eccentric Soul: Mighty Mike Lenaburg","text":"  In 1960s Phoenix, Mike Lenaburg was a scenester without much of a scene. Having grown up in L.A., the white, Britishborn, r&bloving Lenaburg was used to plenty of musical activity. He was also used to a mixed racial environment. Still in his teens when he got a job checking coats at a local dance club, he soon graduated to spinning records and talentspotting for local radio DJ and aspiring producer Ray Ford. Lenaburg believed Phoenix could produce a soul scene every bit as vibrant as Detroit or Memphis, and he tried to make that belief a reality. He made his first recording with a group called the Newlyweds when he was only 16, and the Bside, \"The Quarrel\", became a local novelty hit despite being an unlistenable spoken word mess. The guys at Numero Group have included it as the last track on their Lenaburg retrospective, the latest in their amazing Eccentric Soul series, and it serves as a telling illustration of just how far he had come by the time he was regularly helming sessions in the late 60s. Much of this music was never properly released in its day though nearly all of it was worthwhile. Lenaburg started and folded several record labels two only saw one release and never seemed to find the golden groove that could provide a real shape for the Phoenix soul scene the way Motown or Stax had for their cities. It's an interesting recorded legacy, though, one full of fantastic funk and soul tracks that sound dynamite rubbing up against each other on this compilation.  Lenaburg's marquee artist was Michael Liggins, who cut a series of filthy funk sides in the late60s, including the merrily lascivious \"Standing on the Corner\", a slamming cut in which he and his backing singers wile the day away \"standing on the corner watching all the foxes go by.\" Liggins stuck with Lenaburg even during a long recording hiatus in the 70s (the time off came after a singer Lenaburg managed was killed by her husband just prior to a tour), and sings the latest track, a beautiful slice of sweet soul called \"Black & Beautiful\", based on Little Willie G's \"Brown Baby\".  There were many more talents hanging around Phoenix, including Chicano soul band the Soulsations, represented here by two total stormers: A jerking, neverreleased attempt to jump the shingaling bandwagon called \"Broadway ShingaLing\" and \"Funky Nightclub\", a stone dancefloor killer with gritty vocals, twisting horns, and clattering, sampleworthy drum break. Fourteenyearold Ronnie Whitehead is present both on his own as a convincing James Brown understudy \"Cold Feet\" is a blistering answer to \"Cold Sweat\" and as a member of the Soul Blenders, a group formed by his brothers. Their \"Blending Soul\" rides a powerhouse groove with a fantastic bass line and pounding horn arrangement.  It's a shame Lenaburg wasn't able to put together a true company around the acts he produced and managed, because this compilation makes clear that not only was there a lot of talent in Phoenix, but that Lenaburg himself was gifted. He wasn't a performer, but he wrote or cowrote nearly every song on this disc, displaying a deep, spoton grasp of funk and soul and a willingness to experiment. All the talent in the world doesn't matter, though, if all the tapes stay in the closet, and it's a true public service that this disc brings them out into the light for all to hear.  "}