{"label":" Atlantic / Big Beat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9302/homepage_large.c1f58061.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Teddybears","title":"Soft Machine","text":"  The latest album and first North American release from Swedish grindcorecumstereo selector trio Teddybears is like an aural Jackson Pollack painting, marked by splattered strands of color, but the whole picture never comes into focus. Instead the group once known as Skull offers a curious blend of electro, quasidancehall, krautrock, Detroit punk, dancerock, and several other styles and applies them almost at random. There's a long, slithery bass line at the heart of most of the songs, but with guest vocalists chipping in on nearly half the album, the karaoke effect takes hold, siphoning a discernible personality from a band that's clearly experiencing some healthy genreidentity issues. This kind of musical hopscotch isn't necessarily a bad thing, and at times Soft Machine feels like a DJKicks compilation from Teddybears' backbone, Jonas and Klas Ahlund. The frisky Cybotronesque \"Automatic Lover\", which features vocoderstyle crooning over smashing cymbals, acts as fitting rejoinder to postHuman After All drudgery. If only the Teddybears could have spread that strand of paint a bit thinner. \"Yours to Keep\" is the album's centerpiece. Built on the strength of a muchhyped duet between Annie and Neneh Cherry suddenly relevant in a postM.I.A. world \"Yours to Keep\" should be a sassy treat. But their divergent voices make for a less than stellar combination: Cherry is all untrained edges and attitude, if slightly rusty, while Annie's airy delivery is a bit more precious. Thus you have a cloying mess. That song is sandwiched between Mad Cobra's oddly popular \"Cobrastyle\" and Elephant Man's obnoxious guest spot on \"Are You Feelin' It?\" \"Cobrastyle\" has been a commercial beast appearing over images of digitized soccer players, German lager, and professional wrestlers alike. This may have facilitated Teddybears' emergence in the U.S. as a production curio. Cobra's interpolation of Kid Rock's \"Bawitdaba\" on the track is hopelessly corny, and it's a shame because it's one of the few beats a postska attempt at pop that's got replay value. \"Are You Feelin' It?,\" on the other hand, is mired in recycled reverberating guitars and Elephant Man's insolent toasting.  Save the minimal punkfunk forum for hero Iggy Pop (whose menacing oil drum of a voice still sounds great) on \"Punkrocker\", the latter half of Soft Machine is a garden for the group's singer Patrik Arve to plant pseudointellectual lyrics in his TeutontravelstoJamaica moan. While Teddybears' fusion of funkier, organic styles with the rigid bloops and blips of European dance music are occasionally inspired, the vocals are fairly dreadful and the songwriting isn't quite engaging. Closer \"Alma\" is a quiet, atmospheric journey that is hopefully a portent of things to come for the trio. It's languorous and thoughtful, in no rush to make an impression, unlike the eager lookeyhere guestladen tracks up front. Despite the major labelbacking (Atlantic is distributing this album) and the cheers of a few outlying hep vocalists, Teddybears are perhaps best served doing them. Who that is, exactly, isn't yet clear.  "}