{"label":" Yeti","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9306/homepage_large.2421ecf9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Yeti #4","text":" Some years ago, writer and former Chemical Imbalance kingpin Mike McGonigal made a mixtape for his friend Tim Rutili, singerguitarist for Red Red Meat and Califone. On the tape McGonigal apparently included \"The Orchids\" by Psychic TV, introducing Rutili to a track that Califone has now reinterpreted as the evocative centerpiece for their amazing new Roots and Crowns album. Moral of the story: When McGonigal puts together a selection of songs, it might be prudent to pay close attention. The latest issue of Yeti McGonigal's new postChemical Imbalance arts and music journal is another 244page whopper chockfull of absorbing thoughts and visions. In addition to the proverbial smorgasbord of fiction and visual art, Yeti #4 also includes a tour diary by Okkervil River's Will Sheff, Destroyer's Dan Bejar interviewed by a rambunctious eightyearold tyke, and features on such disparate artists as scifi author Octavia Butler, comedian Todd Barry, and street gospel singer Rev. Louis Overstreet. Other fascinating tidbits include crime writer Peter Doyle's collection of vintage Australian crimescene photos and a thoughtprovoking exegesis of \"Sweet Home Alabama\" by Drew Daniel of Matmos/Pitchfork. As has become its hallmark, most of the material in Yeti #4 initially appears to have little in common besides the general ability to attract McGonigal's voracious attentions. This same sense of wideranging curiosity also extends to Yeti #4's accompanying 28track CD, which features rare or previously unreleased recordings from Destroyer, Okkervil River, Bright, and Page France. On this CD, McGonigal shows that there's equal room in his peaceable kingdom for the Blow's chirpy new wave, Alela Diane's dusky folk, electronic \"library\" music, and Eritrean field recordings. Beyond simply being a sequence of miscellaneous songs that he likes, however, McGonigal seems here to have handpicked a collection of performers to whom he feels some deeper connection either through friendship, personal history, or simple geography which gives the compilation an added sense of intimacy and unsuspected continuity. Yeti is published out of Portland, Oregon, so it's unsurprising that this collection is weighted heavily toward acts from the Pacific Northwest, several of whose careers have not progressed much beyond their MySpace pages. Nevertheless, tracks like \"Azalea\" from Portland's enigmatic Ghosting and \"Blood Is Clean\" by Valet (aka Honey Owens from JackieO Motherfucker) are captivating discoveries, while Destroyer's two tracks both of which appeared on the 1997 selfreleased cassette Ideas for Songs find Dan Bejar operating in an almost Daniel Johnstonlike solo melodic stupor. Also stellar is \"Music for El Dorado\", a homespun duet between folk eccentric Michael Hurley and Tara Jane O'Neil which was recorded in a friend's Portland kitchen, and \"She Who Makes Dogs Shiver\", a raucous postgrunge growl from Ohio's We March, one of the few tracks here that harkens back to Chemical Imbalance's noisy heyday.  Another of McGonigal's biggest recent passions has been prewar gospel blues Yeti is scheduled to publish his Field Guide to Gospel Blues sometime in the near future and here he includes Reverend E.W. Clayborn's stunning \"God Is Riding Through the Land\". Equally rousing is \"How Much I Owe\", a 1955 performance from familygospel act Radio Four, which McGonigal admits he added in part out of resentment that nuevo postpunkers Radio 4 have gotten away with borrowing the group's name. And though there are naturally several clunkers that drag down the compilation's momentumsuch as Somos Marquis Homos' writtenandrecordedinoneday muddle \"Down and Out in Madrid and Barcelona\" there are at least as many that could easily find ways to sneak into your daily routine. For further evidence of this set's inspirational possibilities, one need look no further than the gorgeous alternate mix of Califone's \"The Orchids\", a chance hearing of which might encourage a further generation of song traders to begin an avid search beneath all of Yeti's newly upturned stones.  "}