{"label":" Capitol","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9307/homepage_large.bbfc8f8f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"The Decemberists","title":"The Crane Wife","text":"  For a few years now, the Decemberists' stagey, hyperliterate folkrock has played well at indie labels Hush and Kill Rock Stars. The quintet has occupied a small communitytheater space with gleefulness and confidence, but now it's accepted a scholarship to Capitol Records, which means a larger stage and a bigger audience. Can the band still project, or will its voices be lost in a cavernous auditorium, rejoined only by crickets and barely stifled coughs of boredom? Will nineminute mariner epics play in Peoria? Given the band's graduation from minor to major leagues, The Crane Wife may prove to be the most crucial record the Decemberists will release in their lifetime. Fortunately, their fourth album further magnifies and refines their strengths. Winsomely balancing frivolity and gravity, the Decemberists assemble an oddball menagerie of the usual rogues and rascals, soldiers and criminals, lovers and baby butchers but they've got a lot more tricks up their sleeves than previous albums had hinted. The Crane Wife employs an impressive variety of styles and sounds to tell Meloy's imaginative stories: There's the band's usual folkrock, honed to an incisively sharp point, but they also deploy a smuggler's blues (\"The Perfect Crime\"), a creepy lullaby (\"Shankill Butchers\"), a Led Zep stomp (\"When the War Came\"), and, perhaps most divisively, a multipart prog track (\"The Island\") that stretches well past the 10minute mark. No epic chantey this time, though. Meloy's inventive songwriting is the binding force, emphasizing character but remaining ever in thrall to stories, savoring the way they always play out to the same conclusions. Along with the homosexual undertones that have informed Decemberists songs from every album, he jettisons most of the archetypes that inspired Picaresque and cuts his characters loose in their own tales. They still do what they're fated to do the thieves thieve and run amok, the lovers love and die tragically, the soldiers soldier on and pine for peaceful homes but they seem to do it more out of free will than authorial design.  Meloy focuses mainly on matters of war (\"But O did you see all the dead of Manassas/ All the bellies and the bones and the bile?\") and love (\"No, I lingered here with the blankets barren/ And my own belly big with child\"). On the duet \"Yankee Bayonet (I Will Be Home Then)\", Meloy plays the part of an errant, possibly dead Civil War soldier while singersongwriter Laura Veirs cameos as his \"sweetheart left behind.\" It's Cold Mountain writ poignantly small, its sweet, wordless chorus perfectly lifesize. Lumbering menacingly, the martial march of \"When the War Came\" smells of gunpowder and singed hair, although it sounds like it's anchored in Neverland despite trying to comment on realworld events.  Meloy's taletelling will always define the Decemberists, but The Crane Wife puts as much weight on the music as on the lyrics, and here the band gels into a tight, intuitive unit. The musicians give each song a particular spark and character, not just reinforcing the lyrics but actively telling a story. They create a breezy eddy of guitar strums and piano chords to enhance a windborne melody and an undercurrent of peril on \"Summersong\", and the tragedy of \"O Valencia\" any good song about starcrossed lovers must end in death is countered by the pep of the music, especially Chris Funk's ascending and descending guitar, which seems to take a particular glee in the inevitable denouement. The band isn't just ablebodied, but ambitious to boot. It makes the brainy prog of that monster second track, a distillation of the musical reach of their 2003 EP The Tain, sound like a natural extension of their base sound. They troll confidently from the rumbling overture and heated exposition of \"Come and See\" to the final rueful notes of \"You'll Not Feel the Drowning\". The song is chockablock with progisms organ runs, dampered cymbals, laser synths but manages to shake off the genre quote marks as the band jam with convincing menace.  Their range allows them to be precociously diverse, but everything fits naturally. The Crane Wife sounds like their most shapely album to date, resembling a spirited story arc in its setup, rising action, climax, and resolution. In this structure the three title segments, despite essentially bookending the tracklist, form the album's thematic centerpiece, the music and story meshing gracefully and tenderly to retell a Japanese fable. \"The Crane Wife 3\" opens the album with a ruminative flourish as John Moen's drums push the sensuous thrust of the music and Meloy's delivery of the lines \"each feather it fell from skin\" colors the resignation of \"I will hang my head hang my head low.\" It opens the album en medias res, setting up the subsequent storysongs as the narrator's rueful reminiscences.  \"The Crane Wife 1 and 2\" comprise a medley towards the album's end, starting slow and soft but gradually reaching crescendo in an unfurling finale, with Meloy breaking the word \"heart\" into multiple syllables over an unraveling drum beat. Restrained yet resonant, the song's (and album's) climax is a remarkable moment. As it segues into the rousing coda of \"Sons & Daughters\", the Decemberists sound like a band that knows exactly where they're going and won't be satisfied until you come along for the trip.  "}