{"label":" Low Transit Industries","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9308/homepage_large.50fc1ad6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Okkervil River","title":"Overboard & Down EP","text":"  You'd think that a song called \"The President's Dead\", especially coming from a brainy indie band like Okkervil River, would be a protest song, a wistful bit of liberal daydreaming, just as you'd think a song called \"In God We Still Trust\", especially coming from a Nashville country band like Diamond Rio, would be a very different sort of protest song. But Will Sheff's composition, which opens the Australian tour EP Overboard & Down, isn't an executive threat or demonstrationready sloganeering. Instead, it's merely a means of making the political very personal, of finding some humanity in the closed sphere of D.C. politics. It's ambiguous enough to apply to JFK or Bush or Martin Sheen. The song begins, as many Okkervil River songs do, with Sheff's voice over an acoustic strum and eventually ramps up, as many Okkervil River songs do, into a passionate climax. Sheff uses national tragedy (\"A shout from the crowd and a shot in the head the president's lying on the tarmac dead\") to consider the joys of life: waking up to his girlfriend, smelling coffee brewing and bacon cooking, walking around his new place. Reflecting on the assassination, he finds a small kernel of contentment a commodity so rare in the Okkervil River canon that \"The President's Dead\" sounds all the more endearing and powerful. This being an Okkervil River release, that contentment is inevitably shortlived. Like all good storytellers, Sheff is interested in conflict, mostly of the manvs.himself variety, and he has the uncommon and perhaps unenviable gifts for speaking fluently through his miseryheavy characters. That conflict is also reflected in the music, which swells and fades to mirror the moods of the songs. There's nothing new or experimental on Overboard & Down, no odd avenue they're exploring or new instrument they're incorporating, but that doesn't mean it's a casual assemblage of random songs. Rather, in addressing the vagaries of commitment and the contradictions of humanity in just five songs, this wellthoughtout EP distills the complexity of their proper albums into a single, clear emotional trajectory.  The four tracks that follow \"The President's Dead\" dismantle that song's tentative hope and destroy it entirely. The characters aren't necessarily the same throughout this collection, but presumably they're anagrams of each other, hinting at an overarching narrative with a steep downward spiral. First come doubt and withdrawal on \"The Room I'm Hiding In\"; with its nonthreatening shamble and curlicue guitar line, it's as pensive and interiorized as \"The President's Dead\", but with a casual air that makes the character's withdrawal all the more impulsively selfdestructive and flagrantly selfdeluding. That leads fluidly into the pleading and recrimination of \"O, Dana\", a surprisingly solid Big Star cover. Okkervil River don't change the song too dramatically, retaining its midtempo pace and halting, almostfallingapart dynamic, but replace the scratchy guitar with horns and the boppy chorus with an exclamatory singalong.  Alex Chilton's idiomatic bitterness complements Sheff's desperate selfreckoning remarkably well, but \"O, Dana\" is just a warmup for the onetwo punch of \"Love to a Monster\" and a truly sinistersounding live version of \"Westfall\". Together these two tracks comprise an emotional chasm: They're among the darkest songs Sheff's written, and their pairing at the end of Overboard & Down only spotlights their unrelenting bleakness. On \"Love to a Monster\", whose lyrics give Gentlemanera Greg Dulli a run for his money, a relationship cracks apart and curdles into contempt and violence, as if discarding good memories and becoming emotionally masochistic were acts of survival: \"I hope your new man thinks of me when he sees what a number I did on you,\" Sheff sings, his measured cadence all the more unsettling. Further disconcerting is the spirited stage banter that prefaces the murder ballad \"Westfall\". Sheff addresses his audience amiably. Cracks a joke. Thanks the opening band. Then launches into a tale of a young killer remembering and rejoicing in the death of a girl named Lori. It's as if murder, whether literal or figurative, were the last stage in ending a relationship.  Never allowing the songs to venture outside his head they chronicle the reminiscences of events, not the events themselves Sheff doesn't distance himself from his characters, but goes to great lengths to identify himself with the protagonist: On \"Love to a Monster\" he sings about \"each last letter sent you from the cheap little pen of this weak little man,\" then clarifies: \"this one singing.\" It might be tempting at first to queasily dismiss these songs as emotionally masochistic confessions, but Okkervil River work their way to this extreme position quite logically: Overboard & Down, like most of the band's releases, reveals how even the happiest of heights carries the potential for misery, how love holds a kernel of contempt. That Sheff reaches this conclusion from such an unexpectedly content moment on \"The President's Dead\" only makes this EP all the more poignant.  "}