{"label":" Holocene","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9311/homepage_large.430c4fab.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By John Motley","artist":"Swan Island","title":"The Centre Will Hold","text":"  The Pacific Northwest's long history of punkinspired, femalefronted rock is, unsurprisingly, full of subversion, and the debut from Portland's Swan Island continues that tradition in spades. Like SleaterKinney, Swan Island cops its name from a freeway exit. But what sounds like it should be Portland's most fairy tale setting is actually an industrial park. Conspicuously void of swans and not an island at all, it's where your UPS packages go if you're never home to sign for them. Then there's the album's title, which inverts W.B. Yeats' apocalyptic prophecy in \"The Second Coming\". It's a gesture akin to spraypainting a big peace sign over all the doom and gloom of one of Modernism's indestructible monuments. But Swan Island's real trick is in the music. Infiltrating maledominated genres such as heavy metal and classic rock, the band rocks monster riffs while deflating all the heaviness with discodamaged rhythms. That's not to say that Swan Island is another dancepunk retread. Drummer Vera Domini keeps the BPMs high with some hyperactive highhat, but the music remains a distant cousin to the Gossip's fouronthefloor beats or Erase Errata's dizzying propulsion. Instead, the band maps closer to SK with its intricate guitar interplay. Guitarists Aubree BernierClarke and Torrence Stratton's axe work is one of the album's biggest pleasures, particularly as the playing varies widely from song to song or even within a single song. On opener \"Crumble\", crunchy, Black Sabbath riffs sidle up next to jumpy leads. By contrast, \"Night Owl\" the album's most polished pop gem finds BernierClarke and Stratton trading plinking, reverbsoaked guitar lines. Not only is \"Night Owl\" the album's most concise and memorable track, it also uncharacteristically finds vocalist Brisa Gonzalez recalling bittersweet memories: \"Our hearts conspired to fool our minds/ Tonight let's leave what's left behind.\" On The Centre Will Hold, Gonzalez typically favors abstraction or agitpop over direct emoting.  But that's hardly a bad thing: Swan Island have packed their debut with songs that are incendiary and dynamic without lapsing into cliché. For all of the classic rock influences that inform the band's sound, the group demolishes standard structure with songs that refuse to stay in one place for very long. \"Flew the Coop\", for example, twists and turns until Gonzalez warns of impending catastrophe, singing, \"The sky is falling/ The tide is rising.\" If Swan Island's music at times borders on chaos, it is an exacting and tightly orchestrated version of it one that numbers them among the Northwest's most promising new bands.  "}