{"label":" RCA","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9312/homepage_large.ff9facc9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Lou Reed","title":"Coney Island Baby","text":"  It takes the better part of an hour to ride the F train from the East Village to Coney Island, but it feels much longer. Because you're not just traveling through the boroughs but back through the decades as well, to a place where it's 1953 all the time a fairground fantasia that looks as if it's about to be swallowed by the imposing, endless expanse of the Atlantic Ocean. Coney Island feels like the last stop before the edge of the world. It's our collective vision of impending death, writ large in Ferriswheel lights and cotton candy: One last flash of childhood nostalgia before we disappear into the void. Thirty years ago, this is where Lou Reed went to bottom out and cash in his chips. Even if he wasn't dead, his career pretty much was: While hindsight has granted 1975's electronicnoise experiment Metal Machine Music a contrarian classic celebrated more as a symbolic \"fuck you\" than as a musical composition the reality was it forced him into a precarious financial position where he was being sued by his exmanager and living daytoday in the Gramercy Park Hotel, with the bill footed by a sympathetic RCA boss who forced Reed to, in his own words, \"go in and make a rock record.\" But when he did, creating what was to become Coney Island Baby, instead of referring to his usual inspirations transvestites, junkies, the underclass Reed exposed a far more shadowy, fascinating entity: his heart. By 1976, we had already heard Reed do pretty much everything that could be done in a pop song: shoot heroin, suck on a dingdong, kiss shiny boots of leather. And yet nothing he had done was quite as shocking as the revelation on Coney Island Baby's devastating title track that he always \"wanted to play football for the coach.\" But as the song drifts along its elegiac sixminute arc, the idea moves from the ridiculous (Lou as linebacker?) to the sublime (nothing fuels a young man's burgeoning homosexual impulses like getting pat on the butt by brawny alpha males in tights) to the unspeakably poignant: rock's reigning iconoclast admitting that he just wanted to fit in all along. Coney Island Baby is the sound of Reed playing ball, assembling a stellar cast of backing players (bassist Bruce Yaw, guitarist Bob Kulick, and drummer Michael Suchorsky) to elevate his gutterbound songwriting up to 70s FM rockradio standards. You can see why some critics deemed the album a commercial concession: \"Charley's Girl\" is essentially a mashup of Reed's two biggest hits, setting \"Sweet Jane\" strums to the doodoodoo cadence of \"Walk on the Wild Side\"; \"She's My Best Friend\" was an old Velvet Underground raveup reborn as an elegant, theatrical sixminute set piece. But even if the guitar solos verge on Eric Clapton/Mark Knopfler levels of tastefulness, it's hard to imagine another singersongwriter from the era producing a song as chilling as \"Kicks\", a survey of vices that proffers murder as the ultimate high, with Reed effectively laying down the challenge to those who want to live vicariously through his seedy explorations.  \"Kicks\" is the track that benefits most from this 30th anniversary reissue's superb, wintrycrisp remastering job, playing up the contrast between the song's creeping momentum and its houseparty ambience, while the random, sudden foregrounding of the background chatter reminiscent of Reed's own intrusions on John Cale's \"Lady Godiva's Operation\" is as startling as the best horrormovie shocks. And the title track's dreamy reminiscence is, of course, more vivid and affecting than ever, heavenly white soul that inhabits the same rarefied sphere as Van Morrison's Astral Weeks. Among this reissue's six bonus tracks is a strippeddown acoustic demo of \"Coney Island Baby\" that would be right at home on the third Velvets album, but feels less revelatory; what made the final version such a triumph was that Reed was not just revealing his emotions, but rendering them in lushly detailed strokes.  The remaining bonus tracks most of which were recorded with VU holdover Doug Yule find Reed's rock'n'roll heart beating loudly and proudly, with \"Nowhere at All\" and \"Leave Me Alone\" flexing a muscular Stonesy blues that Reed would further indulge on 1978's tougherthanleather Street Hassle. But Coney Island Baby was not the right time for Lou to be acting tough; this most sensitive album made in his darkest hour required a lightness of touch. Even if Lou never made the football team, with Coney Island Baby he at least remembered the most important play to get the fans back onside: go deep.  "}