{"label":" Stones Throw","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9329/homepage_large.f36f5705.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Chrome Children","text":"  While other forwardlooking indie hiphop labels like Rawkus and Def Jux have declined or folded over the last decade, Peanut Butter Wolf's Stones Throw remains vital. Survival isn't an easy task for any tiny label nowadays, but to achieve such fan loyalty and artistic consistency in the notoriously fickle universe of rap is particularly notable. To celebrate the accomplishment, Wolf gathered his roster and compiled this 19song mix CD/live DVD, released in association with Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. While the irreverent cartoon franchise played a large role on their first foray into hiphop mixing up last year's Dangerdoom album with skits featuring \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" among other animated anomalies their involvement here is on the periphery. Still, it's an inspired form of brand extension on both sides two boundarybursting entities obsessed over by nerds and stoners alike. Instead of taking advantage of this synergistic moment to piece together a hits CD, Wolf elicits new compositions from his crew, including multiple appearances from J Dilla, Oh No, and the spiritual mastermind of the Stones Throw aesthetic, Madlib (under multiple guises, of course). So while Blist throwers and topheavy sequencing bring the mix's Parliament 3000 vibe down a bit, Chrome Children is an accurate summary of a singular label. It's all here the untouchable beats, mediocre braggadocio raps, brilliant rediscovered nuggets, soso hippie r&b, and psych freakouts worthy of Sun Ra. With three productions and one verse, the late Dilla's shadow looms large over Chrome Children. On \"Clap Your Hands\", he's in minimalistbounce mode, laying down an ominous snare snap for Detroit MC Guilty Simpson to stomp all over. The little known Simpson follows his two outstanding spots on the recent posthumous Dilla disc The Shining with yet another standout performance, his straightforward delivery fitting perfectly inside the producer's oozing supersonics. Equally great is the oddball funk of \"Nothing Like This\", featuring stilted, robotic vocals professing unrequited love. Twisted yet still bumping, it comes off like a genuine hiphop ode filtered through Devo. Dilla's work on the album professes not only to his palpable heart, but his staggering range as well.  Elsewhere, Madlib continues to plunder his endless well of woozy, samplebased brilliance with MF Doom on \"Monkey Suite\", a slithering preview of the upcoming Madvillain LP. A couple of tracks later, he puts on his alien party hat for \"All I Know\", but the sticky drums are wasted by subpar stoner MC MED, who just sounds creepy when he talks about having his \"whole dick in her throat.\" Stones Throw is sometimes trippedup when it steps out of its hazehop comfort zone, a fact proven by lackluster tracks from psychmeister Koushik and toosmooth crooner Aloe Blacc. Of the lesser known acts, lateblooming West Coast rhymer Roc C rips hardest with his huffing flow on the sweet souling, Oh Noproduced \"Movin'\".  One of Stone Throw's consistently spectacular reissue imprints, So Cal, is represented by the Sly Stonestyle 1970s gem \"Third Rock\" by Pure Essence (a song Rjd2 fans will recognize from a sample from Since We Last Spoke's \"Clean Living\"). Chrome would have benefited from more stellar throwbacks like this from the likes of the Kashmere Stage Band and the Ebony Rhythm Band, both recently rediscovered largely thanks to Stones Throw sister label NowAgain. In an interview on Chrome's disappointingly dull DVD largely devoted to a showcase from this year's SXSW festival Madlib claims he \"probably could have bought a house or two\" with all the money he's spent on collecting records over the years. And, given his wildly divergent tastes, it hardly seems like an exaggeration. So, while Chrome Children is probably best digested on a trackbytrack basis, its diversity is true to the spirit of a ruthlessly progressive label marked by its deep roots to the past.      "}