{"label":" Poker Flat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9335/homepage_large.42481fcd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Trentemøller","title":"The Last Resort","text":" Versatility has never been a problem for Denmark's Anders Trentemøller. Skillfully straddling the aucourant sounds of minimal and electrohouse mastering the rippling polyrhythms of the former and the ravy hooks and soaring atmospheres of the latter Trentemøller's handful of singles for Hamburg's Poker Flat label have become staples for many European (and Europhilic) DJs. Trentemøller's catalogue doesn't run exceptionally deep discounting the remixes he's done, which include commissions from Röyksopp and the Knife, he's made 10 records before this one, all of them singles: four for Poker Flat and the rest oneoffs (including a 2003 debut for West Coast schlockhouse imprint Naked Music). But he's got range: I can't think of any other producer who so deftly fuses minimal techno, bigroom house, and the itchyscratchy fidgeting of IDM without sounding tokenistic. Trentemøller has ears, vision, and the software chops to match. It doesn't hurt that he seems to have an innate sense for the mood of the international dancemusic middleground, coming up with just the right combination of elements to catch the prevailing winds with every new single now choppier percussion, now a steelier arpeggio, now a chillier and chillier postacid flange. (Trentemøller's music, inviting a thousand wintry Nordic metaphors, is unfailingly dark.) He isn't the most talented producer on the scene, and hardly the most original; at worst, after a few months his singles can seem merely capably functional identikit house with a flair for this year's silhouette. But at his best, as on the track \"Sunstroke\", he's an enviable force, and as convincing an argument as any that electronic dance music is the most sonically thrilling music on the planet. Those who follow it will know that minimal techno and electrohouse are also currently experiencing something of an identity crisis as they grapple with their ascendance and work out whether they're populist, avantgarde, or some combination of the two while struggling with ways to keep the tricks of the trade (chainreaction clicks, pingpong delay, convolution reverb) from lapsing into mere tropes. But this also might work in Trentemøller's favor: It gives him the excuse to jettison much of his trademark sound and embark on something larger. You see, The Last Resort is very much a grand statement, an ambitious project an Artist Album.  The 13track longplayer is roughly divided between moody downtempo numbers and swirling, housetempo cuts, but only two of the latter the skipping, rideinflected \"Chameleon\", adapted from a single, and the Basic Channelish \"Into the Trees (Serenetti Part 3)\" have the kind of punch to satisfy a dancefloor. Whipped meringuehigh with airy details and fleshed out with baroque touches bells, birdcalls, brushed drums The Last Resort is very much a homelistening album. (To help underscore this point, the album comes packaged with a bonus disc of many of Trentemøller's singles; most of them, so lush on their own, sound positively desiccated in comparison with the album cuts.) It succeeds as such but in part, that's because domestic soundtracking spends a good part of its life getting chameleonic on the wallpaper.  Trentemøller, one suspects, isn't making any bones about the fact that this is a mood piece: with titles like \"Take Me Into Your Skin\", \"While the Cold Winter Is Waiting\", \"Into the Trees\", and, uh, \"Moan\", it could hardly be anything but. This is sultry, sexy music equally suited to chillout areas, wine bars, and bedrooms; it may well be this decade's equivalent to Kruder & Dorfmeister's downtempo classic, The K&D Sessions. Not that there's anything wrong with that: wine bars and bedrooms need music, after all, and for listeners drawn to mixing eroticism with melancholy, it's a fine and satisfying listen; there are plenty of musical ideas running throughout the record to elevate it above mere soundplay. Trentemøller's experience in crafting epic cuts for the dancefloor has made him a crack manipulator of time and intensity. Sometimes he piles it on a little thick, but hey so do any number of credible rock acts. After enough time thinning weeds in the minimal trenches, you can't blame a techno producer for wanting to tend an overgrown English garden for a spell. The Last Resort's closest 2006 equivalent, strangely enough, is probably Thom Yorke's The Eraser, another album that takes affect as both start and endpoint. If anything, Trentemøller's record is fuller than Yorke's more cohesive, \"better\" produced though shuttling back and forth between the two, I find the idiosyncracies of Yorke's songwriting (and Godrich's production) more compelling than Trentemøller's. Both, though, are proving that they can stand on their own: Yorke without his bandmates in Radiohead, and Trentemøller without the other records that would normally bookend his own tracks in a DJ set. Having to do all the work, Trentemøller at times seems to overcompensate by adding more and more elements not multitracking, but hypertracking. Sometimes it's a pity: Many of his ideas, like the curlicued surf guitar of \"Nightwalker\", work fine on their own without being dragged into endlessly undulating soundscapes of dub excess.  Fellow Pitchfork writer Tim Finney, positing an ideal balance between fantastical affect and floorfriendly functionalism in a posting on the I Love Music boards, laments that Last Resort tips toward \"all Frodo, no bongos.\" Whether this comes as a relief or an indictment, of course, will depend upon your feelings about selfindulgence, makebelieve, and purposedriven rhythms. At least you can hear Trentemøller working out the equation at every step; obviously as influenced by film music and prog excess as he is the throbbing throng, he's married Balearic eclecticism to Scandinavian melancholy in a way that's often impressive and occasionally breathtaking. At the very least, it's consistently beautiful or at least pretty even when it fails to be properly engrossing. I've spent many a night (and many a comedown morning) listening to the album, and I suspect I'll spend many more in kind; like incense and absinthe, sometimes mood music hits the spot in a way that doesn't really need theorizing.  "}