{"label":" Soft Abuse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9336/homepage_large.a2714cea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Flying Canyon","title":"Flying Canyon","text":" Born beneath a marblegrey California sunset, Flying Canyon's selftitled debut is a refreshingly downtoearth statement set against neofolk's increasingly freakfashion landscape (remember grunge wear?). Part of the magic: It seems just about effortless. To place the aesthetic within a contemporary constellation, find the Jewelled Antlerleague trio somewhere between Ben Chasny's Compathia lullabies, the streaked tape wobble of Jakob Olausson's Moonlight Farm, or Jana Hunter's patchwork ambience. All those things, but with less roaming and fewer brambles. Jewelled Antler mainstay Glenn Donaldson's part of the equation, and you can't generally go wrong with one of his projects. The California disciple's always skulking somewhere near JA's margins, including his holysounding solo work as the Birdtree and the Ivytree along with multiperson projects like Blithe Sons, the Franciscan Hobbies, Mirza, Skygreen Leopards, and Thuja. The Antler résumé's carted out again (printed on tree bark with sap) because like his recent guestspot on Wooden Wand's Second Attention in Flying Canyon, despite the acidfolk pedigree, Donaldson lets someone else take lead. For this outing, he rests in a shadowy selfmade bed of drums, organ, banjo, flute, and acidfolk falsetto. He's joined by newest Skygreen Leopard (and fellow Second Attention guest) Shayde Sartin on bass and acoustic guitar and longstanding Leopard Donovan Quinn, aka sleepy nighttime magician Verdure, who plays slide guitar on a track. So basically, the Skygreen Leopard squad's gathered in silence, allowing sweetly grizzled Cayce Lindner to float atop the reverb sea.  Everyone's excellent, but Lindner steals the show with gentle, lonesome vocals that linger like a blend of Roky Erickson's solo work (sans twang), Skip Spence's throatscratched submersion, and David Crosby's California dusk melody note the album cover's similarity to Crosby's first solo album, 1971's If I Could Only Remember My Name. Conjuring that era, I'd love to hear him duet with White Magic's Mira Billotte, as Grace Slick, of course. People have also mentioned Kris Kristofferson, but KK was one suave dude Lindner might be suave in a Daniel Higgs way, but he doesn't sing with Kristofferson's swagger or, for that matter, Higgs' solo work's possessed folk incanting. His vocals are tangibly sadder (without being mopey). Unlike some downer folkies, he doesn't whisper his voice is rich and he always opens up and sings, sometimes taking it as far as his vocal chords can rattle before cracking.  Not merely a bounteously bearded fromman, he also writes the memorable, refreshingly ragafree songs. This is unadorned but fathomless music. I like the idea of the reunited Saint Vitus hooking up with Vashti Bunyan, but the \"California doom folk\" tag that comes attached to the jewel box is a tad misleading. No doubt the music's slow and gloomy, but heavy? There are unexpected drum or bass sounds, but the sound remains spectral and spare. The doomiest track is the opener, \"In the Reflection\", which ponders \"the stars' forgotten glow,\" while sonically perched atop deepdish/detuned echo drums, lethargic Mudhoney bass (set to three on an amplifier), and seraphic guitar. When the bottom drops out, you feel it leave, but no more than you would a butterfly flapping its wings (and no, not the butterflyeffect butterfly).  Flying Canyon are less forest floor miasmatic than other Jewelled Antler offerings. The nine songs reintroduce the emotions and atmospherics of Donaldson's earlier work, but from within a cigaretteburnt Motel 6, not the branches of a warbling shade tree. Recorded on reeltoreel by Donaldson you can feel the moss, dust, and despair growing on the side of his tape machine the set's paced at a dazed halfspeed (this is where that doom thing sorta comes into play). Songs feel like culled, breathless fragments. Most seem to take place at night bodies give out (or exist as diamond mines), windows frame halfremembered experiences, harmonies end at dawn, people leave and turn away, it consistently rains.  The sooty atmospherics aren't built by accrued layering, but rather the spacious, intimately claustrophobic shagrug feel of the room the way those early Scud Mountain Boys albums were recorded in a kitchen, around a table. But then, the dewy \"The Bull Who Knew the Ring\" is a lonesome prairie stride up the side of a mountain range. As with other songs, it could ostensibly creep for 30 minutes: Skip Spence's Oar left to disintegrate in a cedar lake (count the rings).  These days, psychedelic window dressing, PRhatched mythologies, and six thousand and one new folk reissues a week are beyond tired. In fact, even the musicians often associated with the scene are working overtime to distance themselves frome the hennadripping trainwreck. Flying Canyon's complexly understated sound, which reveals new textures and resonances with each listen, exists outside the cloying, fauxfolk context: Behind weepy organ, cabinet hums, a surprising drum shivver, Lindner and friends carve out an erudite haze that foregoes caricature and wardrobe changes in favor of melody, inventive instrumentation, strong songwriting, and an honest, riveting charisma. Pretty novel, right?  "}