{"label":" Universal","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9342/homepage_large.2907fa95.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The Walker Brothers","title":"Everything Under the Sun","text":" Feeling out a central arc in the story of the Walker Brothers is tough it's a story that goes in fits and starts and doesn't stay on one path for long. Their three members weren't named Walker, and they weren't brothers. They were American, but hit it big after moving to swinging London and subsequently becoming a part of the British Invasion. They made their most challenging music three albums into a completely unexpected mid1970s reunion. They're sometimes viewed as an anachronism in the London of Carnaby Street, UFO, Indica Books, and the International Times, and yet at the time they sold records by the boatload. There's some truth to the anachronism view I keep trying to picture them touring with Jimi Hendrix, Pink Floyd, and the Soft Machine, but the image won't come. There's something about their intensely dramatic (sometimes melodramatic) music, orchestral formalism, and triplethreat heartthrob image that just doesn't jibe with beat and psychedelia. Perhaps that's why their music largely avoids sounding dated to its 19651967 time frame. That's not to say it sounds modern, either very few artists make records like this anymore but it's certainly not tied up with 60s counterculture associations. Covering more than 100 tracks (13 previously unissued) over five discs, Everything Under the Sun is true to its name, bringing together all of the Walkers' material, from Scott's early, awkward exhortations to \"do the jerk\" to his first forays into bizarro world on 1978's Nite Flights LP. If nothing else, this proves that their music is more than just hors d'oeuvre for Scott Walker's solo career. There are throwaway tracks all over the place, sure, but there are small masterpieces as well, and there's immense talent on display nearly everywhere.  Scott Engel, John Maus, and Gary Leeds originally came together in L.A., where all three had been session players since the early 60s. In early, preLeeds bands with Maus, Engel mostly wanted to play bass and barely sang at all. Early sessions with Jack Nietzsche at the boards changed that Engel's voice was simply too spectacular to keep hidden. That voice so rich and sonorous, naturally stuffed with gravitas is in the lead on most of the songs on this box, and it's obvious why.  The Walkers' material splits neatly into two phases, each with three albums: the original 60s act and the 70s reunion. Singles and Bsides throw the balance of material to the 60s, and it's interesting to hear them hit and miss in the early going. Their take on Bacharach/David's \"Make It Easy on Yourself\" is the height of majesty in pop music, with Ivor Raymonde's swirling string arrangement and Scott's soaring lead vocal. But it's surrounded by lousy versions of \"Dancing in the Street\" and \"Land of 1,000 Dances\" (who didn't play that song in 1965?), and the amusing Engelpenned \"Do the Jerk\", a song that's light years from the literary ballads he'd one day make his stock in trade.  At this point, all three Walkers were ravenous for stardom, but it didn't take too many chaotic shows or invasions of privacy for Scott to tire of being a pop icon. \"The Sun Ain't Gonna Shine Anymore\", which appears here in three slightly different versions, was their supernova moment, grabbing the UK #1 spot for four straight weeks, and after that it was simply a matter of time before the split, though it thankfully wouldn't come for two more years. The group's second album, 1966's Portrait, is excellent and surprisingly dark. \"In My Room\" opens it with a blast of apocalyptic trumpet, while \"Hurting Each Other\" nearly equals the drama of \"The Sun Ain't Gonna Shine Anymore.\"  \"Saturday's Child\" and Engel's \"Living Above Your Head\" are charged forays into rock, but it's on two nonalbum tracks that Scott really flexes his muse. \"Archangel\" is ominous, with blaring, almost abrasive church organ, while \"Mrs. Murphy\", not coincidentally from the Solo John Solo Scott EP, anticipates the vivid character studies like \"Big Louise\" that littered his first five solo albums. Their third album, Images, teeters between beautiful, jazzinflected orchestral ballads like the Scottsung \"Once Upon a Summertime\" and borderline schmaltz, like the Scottwritten TexMex tune \"Experience\". \"Orpheus\" sounds like it would have fit on Scott, though, and Maus' \"I Wanna Know\" even makes a halfstab into fuzzrock territory with some success.  And that was it for the Walker Brothers, or so it seemed. Discs four and five in this set pick up the thread in the mid70s, when the band quite spontaneously reunited (Leeds simply called Engel one day and asked if he'd be up for getting back together). Though they experienced a bit of chart success early in the reunion, this remains a fairly unknown musical chapter, coming as it did after Scott's initial burst of solo creativity had waned and the other two had been far from the public eye for years. The first two albums, 1975's No Regrets and 1976's Lines, basically update the band's 60s aesthetic for the 70s dryer sound, more subdued orchestration, guitar solos, a generally smoother feel, and even a little reggae influence, of all things.  Those first two reunion records consist entirely of covers, and while they have their momentsespecially the title track of No Regrets, a Tom Rush cover, and the r&bsoaked take on \"Burn our Bridges\" they don't sound especially inspired either, often static, blandly rocking or, at worst, cloying and treacly. It's the last eleven tracks on this set, comprising the album Nite Flights and the castoff instrumental \"Tokyo Rimshot\" that redeem the group's second phase. These songs two written by Leeds, four by Maus and five by Engel are postpunk in all but name, and Engel's are downright shocking, as far away on the pop spectrum from the simpering of \"Lovers\" and the generic rock of \"First Day\" and \"Have You Seen My Baby\" as possible.  \"Death of Romance\" makes it sound like Leeds had been listening to a lot of Roxy Music, while his \"Den Haague\" ads weird microtonal percussion to its skinnytie funk. Maus' songs work in similar progfunk territory, but the work of both men feels firmly rooted to the 70s, where Engel's songs sound like they come from a parallel universe, firmly pointing the way toward Climate of Hunter, Tilt and the Drift. \"Shutout\" is mindscorching avantdisco topped with a counterintuitively catchy vocal and wickedly amelodic guitar. I can't imagine being a fan of \"No Regrets\" and getting kicked foursquare in the face with the sour robofunk of \"Fat Mama Kick\", much less \"The Electrician\" a harrowing, dissonant sixminute journey into the part of Scott Engel's brain that keeps him up nights, interrupted by a lush orchestral explosion. This was Scott Walker emerging completely from his shell, never to return.  That the Walker Brothers should go out on such an unexpectedly cuttingedge note hardly seems out of place given their history as a whole. If there's a real arc to their story, it's probably that they were never fully in step with what was happening around them, but made it work for them. This box tells the whole story in music, and includes a generously illustrated book that nevertheless focuses on the Walkers together, leaving out the portions of the story that happened before, after and in between their two stints together. All of the No Regrets and Lines albums might be a little too much to own for the average person, but this is a great allinoneplace collection for big fans of the brothers and solo Scott as well.  "}