{"label":" Anticon","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9343/homepage_large.bbdd73dd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Dosh","title":"The Lost Take","text":"  Martin Dosh is an unabashed sentimentalist. It's rumored that he sealed the deal with his future wife, Erin, by writing a song called \"I Think I'm Getting Married\". His only proper EP is named for his son, Naoise, and its closing track a tripping, delicate aubade riding a playfully broken beat teased out by xylophone twinkles and turntable snips is \"Happy Song for Tadgh\", a dedication to his halfbrother. Dosh isn't afraid to make his music personal, and given his mix of organ, piano, loops, and live drums, stacked into major keys and manifest moods he wants it to be taken that way, too. To wit, if most modern electronic music seems frustrating because it appears intent only on either providing pelvicthrust compulsion or verifying its theoretical ballast, Dosh is your man. He hints at house's pulse builds on decades of work from previous abstracters, but, more importantly he wears his heart on his beats. At last, he's made an album The Lost Take that's worthy of such sincere and intimate affections and communicates them with consistent clarity.  Expressed on record, Dosh's life resembles his utopia, even if it's busy, restless, and sometimes marred by the difficulties of being an active musician with a family: Here, Dosh is an enthusiastic cheerleader, a guy who wants to be known for a happy family, a load of friends, and his role in both. The music is cause and effect. \"Everybody Cheer Up Song\" the album's slowest, saddest track, purposely dimmed with keyboards resisting resolution and motionless guitars trying to goad Dosh's directionless drumming home is followed by \"Um, Circles and Squares\", one of the album's brightest moments. Andrew Bird's doleful violin is the invocation, but Dosh doubles it on itself, subsuming it with a highattack Rhodes sequence. Bird's strings peek through only to be swatted with cymbals and snares, a frown flipped, then forgotten. The Lost Take is Dosh's most thematically functional release to date, using alternating textures from John Faheyinspired picking to winsome steel guitar and structures, from passages shaped by noise to tunes built on perfect scales, for nearcircadian mimesis. \"A Ghost's Business\", for instance, is kinetic in every sense: With synthesizer sequences and chopped bits of Bird's violin scrambling above and beneath, Dosh ultimately seeks solace in a drum run that racing itself, ad nauseam offers its practitioner no comfort. But he sounds busy, not nervous, and his choice to follow it with the gorgeous \"Ship Wreck\" restores the balance. Just 20 seconds in, Erin reads a poem \"There is color, deeper than itself, what it forms\" and the tune of her words rescues the track from a thin cusp of static and noise. Just as the melody builds, Dosh's voice (which makes its debut on this album) rises and meets it, singing \"Matter feels deeper than its hardness/ The space it takes/ Beyond space I see a plane that multiplies itself.\" It's an endearing instant, a momentary glimpse into Dosh's very real microcosm. Not coincidentally, Dosh's bestsounding and most thoroughly composed album yet draws capably from that same sphere. Known alternately for drumming with Fog, backing Andrew Bird, and bussing beats to anyone who wants to collaborate, Dosh gives The Lost Take its texture and voice by opening it to those he trusts. They help him cash in: Tapes 'n Tapes guitarist Erik Applewick allows Dosh to turn a cresting, triumphant drum beat and a beautiful, \"Chariots of Fire\"sized piano into \"Mpls Rock and Roll\", a redeeming anthem that beams like reimagined, premium postrock staved for concision. Applewick's static, crunchy chords offer Dosh's drums space to crack. In fact, the collaborations here are entirely about setting up chances for something to happen: The melody of closer \"The Lost Take\" doesn't appear for a full minute, and when it does it's but a mechanism for Happy Apple's Mike Lewis to climb aboard, playing one of the album's most straightforward vamps. Dosh, of course, summarily splits it and lets it chase itself. After all, he never said getting emotional was easy. But it sounds so satisfying here, you'll kind of wish it was. "}