{"label":" Modular","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9348/homepage_large.405d04cc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By William Bowers","artist":"Klaxons","title":"Xan Valleys EP","text":" In recent years, releases from the Strokes and Yeah Yeah Yeahs to !!! and Interpol have proven that the EP can be a perfectable mode of indie flirtation. But to me, !!!'s Me and Guiliani... is a CD single with a shite Bside, and not no proper EP; by contrast, Xan Valleys consists of a frothworthy pair of singles, one additional subpar original track, a stunty cover these were the vinyl fliphalves of the great singles and two remixes of those aforementioned hits that have been already been well skulltrumped, at press time, by a halfdozen uncommissioned others (literally) freefloating around the internets. But first let's begrudgingly go behind the music: Please stop attending to the abortive concerns of this band's European press, even if Klaxons are fueling it. Who cares how bright or (get it) technocolored this threesome's togs are? Wardroberestaging the first few TLC videos does not a revolution make. Also: Ignore the allusions. The literary stuff i.e. the overt refs to Burroughs, Pynchon, Pinchbeck, and the occult are just fun feints, fluorescent red herrings, Wikipediments that the lyrics avoid remitting. Also: The \"new rave\" hype is mostly absurd…for now. Out of guitarcentric insecurity, I've read the right books and am wellaware of the theory that electronic dance music was supposedly the only revolutionary supergenre of the late 1980s and 1990s, and that it may have gotten backburnered by critics horndogging grunge's bummery revisitations, but by the time raveculture reached my southern U.S. stateuniversity town, more energy was spent calling paramedics, peeing into warehouse ventilation shafts, and leaning against walls saying, \"WHOAH, lovercrust, I am so ROLLing\" to other amnesiac/insomniac rollers than listening to the (purportedly crucial) music. Despite their psychofestive tempos, Klaxons recordings contain way more analog elements than most rave fodder, and besides, this EP is being released during the months when allergies and sinusitis most complicate partydrug consumption.  Whatever: \"Gravity's Rainbow\" is a winning, prissthedoordown single. In Pitchfork's Track Review section, my colleague Pete Macia declared it doublespeed Bloc Party, but the tune equally suggests a Ritalinsnorting Beck after drinking the blood of a garage Scissor Sisters. My initial earnmypaycheck angle on this review was to declare Klaxons nudgingly fascist and psychopharmacological, on account of their gall re: demanding that I just absolutely have to have constant fun starting now, despite metabolism and world affairs, but these first two wildly gregarious songs call the skeptical listener out as some Vichyresistance arse. Klaxons' doubleshot of mania reveals tinges of darkness anyway: The drums are, like, so violently pounded, and \"Atlantis to Interzone\" knowingly lifts the midriff from Radiohead's dystopeadope \"Paranoid Android\".  \"4 Horsemen Of 2012\" sounds like Ween under Deceptacon duress, and signals the end of the EP's subtlety about the rave business. Which is to say: The first three tracks probably most purely embody what everyone wanted from that phantom menace called dancepunk, which I'd previously considered a press/PR concoction at best, the \"security mom\" of indie (and then majorlabel) subgenres. Here you get monster basslines, shambolic grooves, primitively appealing percussion, screamed lyrics that vacillate from insipid to insurgent, and a honed obnoxiousness: as much K Records as DFA. I would tout the siren blasts there are more on this EP than bleat during the entirety of It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back but yeah, alright, those are kind of ravey.  The rowdy cover of Kicks Like a Mule's breakbeat standard \"The Bouncer\" is so pissedoff and bandy and liveinstrumentbased that it plays as more akin to 90s collegerock topicalrage songs such as the Archers of Loaf's \"Power Walker\" than to communal dance music. Just as the Archers hated them some bionic sidewalk pacing, Klaxons are equating being left off the guest list with apartheid, overpouring courage onto a wafer of conviction. As for the remixes, consult the internet for many, many more, and beware that they too streamline the originals, often to the point of being covers, once vocals and instruments are replaced and set to fitter, happier, and more daftly punk'd beats.  The coming Klaxons fulllength, rumored to be overseen by Simian Mobile Disco, might just be the titanic thing that really teaches the indie kids to dance and never look back. Imagine what those two producers might achieve with the PapasFritaschannelingHall&Oates caucasianfunk of (nonEPtrack) \"Golden Skans\". Then imagine CMJ charts dominated by Cut Copy, Shit Disco, and Supersystem. But then imagine how their lobotomized mainstream doppelgangers will emerge in some bastardized second generation, inadvertently breeding whole new Cobains who weren't born to boogie, starting the 90s mess all over again, possibly with bitterer choruses and bleaker cardigans.  Portentous McFootnote: Last weekend, firemen had to extinguish a burning piano at a hipster party here in my supposedly behindthepulse, southern U.S. stateuniversity town. I thought, big deal, how punk, how Blood Brothers. But the news story contained a terrifying detail. The encircling throng that cheered the flaming, oldschool song machine…was waving (gulp) glow sticks.  "}