{"label":" Propeller","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9358/homepage_large.e61e5108.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Hanne Hukkelberg","title":"Rykestrasse 68","text":" Little Things, the debut album by Norwegian singersongwriter Hanne Hukkelberg, was an endearing mosaic of intimate jazz and fractured pop miniatures, its sonic fragments meticulously gathered and assembled over the course of two years. Following the album's release, Hukkelberg relocated for a time to Berlin, where she wrote much of the material that would become her second fulllength, Rykestrasse 68. Judging by the results, this was a shrewd artistic move, as here the selfassured Hukkelberg expands her work out onto a grander cinematic scale, casting her new songs with a vivid depth of field worthy of a Nino Rota film score. And though the album is cultivated with the same melodic delicacy as her debut, nearly all of her songs here are undercut by crosscurrents of emotional turbulence, their every polished facet barely concealing the music's inward conflicts and hidden turmoil. This quiet dissonance is immediately evident on the introductory \"Berlin\". Framed as a romantic street scene, Hukkelberg's narrator soon finds her attention turned to \"my neighbor's balcony/ Old bullet holes/ Behind wild botany.\" As with Little Things, Hukkelberg recorded Rykestrasse 68 with the assistance of veteran producer Kåre Vestrheim. For this opening track they weave ambient street recordings almost invisibly into their subtle mix of strings and woodwinds, making it feel as though the song were simply an organic outgrowth of the city's vibrant and scarred landscape, with Hukkelberg's honeyed voice settled casually inside the din. On Little Things, Hukkelberg incorporated such stray objects as wire brushes and bicycle spokes into her dense arrangements, but in some instances these found sounds were processed beyond recognition, slipping anonymously into the album's crowded sidewalks. Here, however, she makes more strategic use of these supplemental ingredients, allowing each additional sound effect or exotic instrumental flourish to retain a natural form and figure, ensuring for their maximum dramatic impact. For the existential narrative \"The Pirate\" (\"A dive into infinity/ The rocks pull him down\") Hukkelberg's woozy blend of accordion, sing saw, and piano effectively mirror the downcast lyrics with an appropriate seasick lurch, while the atmospheric fable \"The North Wind\" is deftly augmented by clacking typewriter keys and shimmering wineglass glissandos.  As a vocalist, Hukkelberg is at her cagey best on the deceptively sunny likes of \"A Cheater's Armoury\", the album's first single. One can't help but detect the shadow of a bitter smile across her lips as she dresses down the song's seductive villain (\"You gamester/ You fool us/ We watch your spinning wheel/ And the longer it takes for us to heal\") purposefully leaving it unclear whether she's addressing a failed lover, friend, or political leader. Likewise, her dusky cover of Pixies' \"Break My Body\" simmers fiercely beneath its cryptic wounds, her deliberate, jazzinflected enunciation giving new intensity to the song's abstracted violence. Less abstract yet even more compelling is the album's penultimate track, \"Ticking Bomb\", which translates a dense code of psychic distress across a shifting canvas of agitated piano, adhoc Mule Variations percussion, and smashed beer bottles. It's an astonishing performance, one that might've seemed more likely from someone like PJ Harvey than from the pristine songstress of Little Things. But here, as with all the best pieces from Rykestrasse 68, Hukkelberg proves willing to allow a little discord to into her carefully orchestrated surroundings, and her captivating work is all the richer for it.  "}