{"label":" Babygrande","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9363/homepage_large.b4266ef8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Sean Fennessey","artist":"Hi-Tek","title":"Hi-Teknology 2: The Chip","text":"  Less than three years ago, Cincinnati producer HiTek then known almost exclusively as the primary sound architect for Rawkus' brief, romanticized run atop underground rap showed up in the liner notes of GUnit's Beg For Mercy, the debut from 50 Cent's nascent crew. This was shocking but not without precedent. In fact, Tek had worked with Snoop Dogg a year prior on Paid tha Cost to Be da Bo$$ and had been tabbed by Dr. Dre to become a member of his Aftermath production inner circle. Still, for many who held Soundbombing compilations close to their heart, the GUnit association was a devastating revelation. Since then, HiTek has impressively weaved between his bohemian friends and the likes of D12 to form a fairly reputable production history. His best beat ever is still a photo finish between Black Star's dusty \"Fortified Live\" and 50's pristine \"Bitch, Get In My Car\" two songs that couldn't be more different. So HiTek (né Tony Cottrell) arrives after this transformation with HiTeknology, an album many point to as Rawkus' last gasp. And it's almost exactly what we expect: confident, if underwhelming, stylistic leapfrogging. Yeoman's hiphop. One minute Jadakiss rasps his way through an inspired bundle of distorted organs and tumbling piano rolls on the rousing \"Where It Started (N.Y.)\". Then HiTek is reteamed with his old Reflection Eternal partner, Talib Kweli one of three such collabos on the flutelaced, doily rap, \"Can We Go Back\". It's a sentiment Kweli has long begged for, despite things moving further and further from 1998 as the days pass. This kind of inconsistency is wonderful for cherry picking; the vibrant \"Josephine\", featuring Tek's parents as the Willie Cottrell Band, and a frisky Ghostface Killah yammering \"Yo, I know this chick from the hood named Courtney Cox/ And the brain is easy to pick like faulty locks/ She's awfully hot, asshole burnin' like Tabasco/ She used to be thick, it's like 'Where the hell the ass go?'\" is a perfect midalbum soul quencher.  Album closer \"Music For Life\", featuring deceased compatriot J Dilla and a fierce verse from Nas (who has always done nostalgia 10 times better than Kweli), best approximates the groove he so often relied on in the late 90s, a shimmering flute loop over snares that sound like drummed empty bottles. One of the few hypercommercial moments comes on the clearly Dr. Dreinspired \"1800HOMICIDE\" featuring The Game. Its tense string plucks and West Coast r&b chorus, sung by Aftermath crooner Dion, are quintessential Drejacking. Later, Devin the Dude and Bun B, Texas' two active best voices, show up for a weighty jam that only serves to remind us that Devin's followup to To Tha XTreme and UGK's reunion album can't come soon enough.  So there's a Texas song, a West Coast song, an NYC song, a Busta Rhymes song, and so on... This is the problem with Tek's elasticity: Without a primary style to lean on, we get a grab bag of strong records. The only unifying factor is that Tek can rock as smoothly with a bulldog like The Game as he can with mushsoul songstresses like Floetry's Marsha Ambrosius. Without the punishing consistency of say, The Chronic, or the daring oddity of Quasimoto's The Unseen, we're left with nothing but a glorified mixtape.  "}