{"label":" Mute","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9364/homepage_large.0abd6441.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Goldfrapp","title":"We Are Glitter","text":"  One of the stranger perks of this new Goldfrapp remix collection is how much it's helped clarify all the reasons I could never really love the duo's last album, Supernature. The record was certainly stylish a big, terrifying burst of electronic glam, ridiculously chic, complete with glitterball ponies and horseheaded dancers and evilKylie choreography. It was, in fact, so immediately, energetically, and obviously cool that snatches of it now adorn commercials for all manner of consumer products. But despite all that, the damned thing just didn't sound very good. Between its grainy buzz, its massive tidal waves of synthesizer, its overwhelming machinetooled energy, and the blaringly loud volume at which records are mastered these days, Supernature wound up feeling like a bully. And while being bullied by Goldfrapp can be an awfully pleasant experience for a song or two, at album length it was draining. Even with some slower tunes in the middle, the effect was like watching a cheerleading tournament on cable: The first routine can seem pretty spectacular, but by the fourth the whole thing becomes a torturous hell of overstimulation and noise, to the point where you practically need to listen to some Garrison Keillor just to regain your composure. (This is how really old people experience the world all the time.) All of which makes We Are Glitter one of a special category of remix albums the sort that actually settles down from the originals, spinning brash, bullying pop out into something slowerbuilding, more spacious, and more dynamic. This is dancefloor Goldfrapp that actually lets you breathe. The selection of remixers is impressive, and while the tracks a lot of them turn in are just about exactly what you'd expect of them there's a variety to the results that makes the experience of listening through the disc a much more comfortable one. The best of the bunch diffuse their tension over slow builds. The standout is Detroit techno legend Carl Craig's take on \"Fly Me Away\", which he turns and I mean this literally into Donna Summer's \"I Feel Love\": That touchstone Moroder bassline goes pulsing up and down while Alison G. coos all alone around it, making a good bid for the exquisite sense of space and suspended motion in the original. Same goes for French house legends Alan Braxe and Fred Falke reworking \"Number One\" and prodding it slowly up into some elegant synth pads and swells: If this is Autobahncruising music, it's Autobahncruising with A Flock of Seagulls in the back seat. Closer to the yougetwhatyouexpect category are Ewan Pearson whose bubbly \"Disco Odyssey\" version of \"Ride a White Horse\" is all lasergun zapping and candycolored twitters and T. Raumschmiere, whose presence here might be too appropriate for its own good. (Goldfrapp are already the pop superstars of the kind of buzzing synthesizer glam Raumschmiere usually delivers, and he sounds like he's not sure what else he was meant to bring to the table.) Benny Benassi's squishy, happyfaced Euro sensibility can be as immediately loveable as Goldfrapp's as evidenced by a similarly high level of commercial placements and you'd think he'd combine with the fearsomely awesome \"Ooh La La\" to create something mindblowing, but not quite: The result is a great sevenminute stomper, ideal for dancefloor functionality, but not exactly a revelation. Variety comes courtesy of Múm, who make pretty, minimalist musicbox tunes out of two tracks, and also from the DFA, whose contribution could almost be the big treasure here. Despite the initial sense that they've just turned \"Slide In\" into a Rapture song, the bulk of the track manages to turn out enthralling, a twitchy disco treat built mostly on hand percussion and one lazy vocal refrain; the only shame is that the center of the thing devolves into the handpercussion equivalent of noodling. Also on the noodling front: the Flaming Lips remixing \"Satin Chic\" their setting the vocal parts in a stringheavy instrumental arrangement doesn't seem to have much of a point, but it's certainly a nice breather. And breathers are one of the selling points here: It's not even that stellar of a collection, and yet there are plenty of moments I'd much rather listen to this than Supernature, if only to spare myself the ear fatigue and the full frontal assault. It's a strange thing about Alison Goldfrapp: She's kind of a big weirdo, isn't she? She's imaginative, and some of her most memorable vocal performances have been strange, soft, spooky things. So why the sheer relentlessness of this glam kick? That, weirdly, is the main question this collection brings to mind: Why Goldfrapp don't seem to be making records as varied, spacious, and subtle as their talents might suggest.  "}