{"label":" Crucial Blast","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9365/homepage_large.e4430683.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Skullflower","title":"Tribulation","text":"  Two decades and 14 albums in, British guitarist Matthew Bower offers the first Skullflower fulllength on which he makes every sound. That's not really a surprise, as the band has centered on Bower for a while. What is surprising is how extreme and impenetrable Tribulation is. Previous Skullflower releases mixed aggressive noise with dark metal, Krautish drone, and drifting ambience. But Tribulation is an unrelenting onslaught, the most annihilating Skullflower release to date. Every second of its 66 minutes poses an unwavering challenge to the ears, as farflung as notorious landmarks like Lou Reed's Metal Machine Music, Whitehouse's Dedicated to Peter Kurten, and anything from the outermost reaches of the Japanese underground (Merzbow, Masonna, CCCC, etc.) So it's kind of hard to recommend Tribulation to anyone whose tolerance for noiseasmusic has even the tiniest limit. (For the cautiously curious, 1994's heavy Carved Into Roses, 1995's mellowed Transformer, and last year's rumbling spacerocker Orange Canyon Mind are better bets). But given that Tribulation's raison d'etre is fullon attack, its nine pieces are impressively dense and textured. Beneath the oppressive skin of Bower's noise lies bubbling layers of color and static. Like a cadaver supplied to a medical student, these tracks reward close inspection if you can stomach the task of tearing into them. Bower doesn't make it easy: Tribulation begins with his toughest, gnarliest noise, which continues unabated through the first five tracks. Launching abruptly into the slicing treble of the aptly titled opener \"Lost In The Blackened Gardens of Some Vast Star\", Bower makes reams of sound that fill and remold your ears like lava poured into plastic. The peak is \"Dying Venice\", which alternately conjures mechanical birds chirping away, the cries of a broken dotmatrix printer, and a flute symphony played by an orchestra of tailpipes. On the sixth cut, \"Void of Roses\", Tribulation starts to pull back slightly. There's no loss of energy or volume, but Bower allows things to breath a bit. The metal drones of Sunn0))) and Earth come to mind, but where those bands prefer columns of sound that vibrate like huge tuning forks, Bower opts for pointed noises that perform a kind of sonic acupuncture. \"Dwarf Thunderbolt\" grinds through ringing tones, while the album's highlight, \"Silver Stars Rot Mindlessly...\", uses guitarhero feedback and cymballike crashes, sounding like a metal band melting inside a huge fire.  There are many more hallucinations to be found in Tribulation, and they seem to morph with every listen. As far as I know, Bower has made no Lou Reedstyle claims that he put any specific patterns inside his noise, and Tribulation is less a magic eye painting than a Rorschach test. Its shapes and figures likely reside in the ear of the beholder. But such discoveries would be impossible without the thick, heavy canvas that Bower has woven.  "}