{"label":" ATO","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9366/homepage_large.75885616.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Adam Moerder","artist":"Ben Kweller","title":"Ben Kweller","text":"  Any exPartridge Family member will tell you the main challenge being a teen musician rests on those makeorbreak years between teenhood and adulthood that 1824ish range where you ideally produce something profound, a rite of passage signifying the end of Weezer ripoffs and unironic lyrics about ice cream. For Ben Kweller, the clock's ticking. He's no 21st century Leif Garrett by any stretch of the imagination, but Kweller, like fellow former teen rocker Daniel John of Silverchair, appears uncertain of his next step after a shortlived grunge backwash band. Although his latest selftitled offering expresses a desire to sound adult, he overshoots the mark, creating an album of innocuous, worldwearied altpop that lacks the fun or energy to stay up past eleven. On opener \"Run\", Kweller sets the tone for the album, bemoaning his accelerated rise and fall with a grandiose, Springsteenesque piano hook that deflates into a nondescript acoustic ditty, Kweller never failing to remind us how exhausting the journey's been: \"Empty hands/ Tired feet/ I run with you...Since fifteen/ I have run/ Everywhere you can run.\" In a nutshell, the song encapsulates the album, a wistful sigh garnished with homogeneous Ben Foldsstyle accompaniment and a 24yearold's midlife crisis. Sure, cozying up in Ben Folds' soundscape ain't such a bad idea for Kweller, who's roped a cult following coopting Folds' sillyyetsensitive shtick. However, Kweller's ballads consistently lack the gravitas to drop like \"Brick\"'s, and his more upbeat hooks need sharpening. In the past offkilter songwritnig masked these hohum raw skills, best exemplified by ShaSha's playful title track or goofball anthem \"Wasted and Ready\". Now, Kweller paints strictly inside the lines. Even on the album's de facto rocker, the cornfed slice of Americana \"This Is War\", he sounds suffocated by a sense of Tom Petty formalism, hushing what could've been an apolitical yet awesome bootinass titular refrain.  Occasionally Kweller's protractedly grownup sound emits pathos worth feeling for, like on languished ballads \"Nothing Happening\" and \"Penny on the Train Track\". Unfortunately though, most sad sack numbers here wallow in a shallow sense of selfpity. The twilightofcareer feel of this work Kweller played every instrument on the album himself simply doesn't ring true. Not that I'm prescribing a drug cocktail bender or traumatic experience for the guy, but it'd help Kweller to continue writing the script to his once auspicious career rather than practically eulogizing it and hey, don't be afraid to have some fun out there for a change.  "}