{"label":" Soul Jazz","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9371/homepage_large.b93063e4.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alex Linhardt","artist":"Tom Moulton","title":"A Tom Moulton Mix","text":" Larry Levan may have perfected grooved hysteria and Giorgio Moroder may have streamlined disco's synthetic beauty, but if one person needs to represent the sheer exhilaration and seductive stamina of 1970s dance, it may as well be Tom Moulton. As a remixer and producer, he condensed every strand of pop and soul, linking r&b's irresistible romance to rock's drunken savagery. His best singles are volatile compounds of sexstarved vocals, icerolling synths, imperious bass lines, and rhythms that alternate between narcoleptic stupor and powdered giddiness. As the unofficial inventor of the disco 12\", he was responsible for converting trifling club hits into epic swells of percussive bliss, and his invention of the \"disco break\" means that his work more than nearly any other disco producer's acted as the fundament for hiphop, new wave, and house. Moulton's mixes represent the sound of disco as it was transmitted through DJs and samplists to the modern day: pop vocals spun into neverending networks of quivering funk. The elementary structure of your average Moulton mix will therefore be familiar to anyone with a strobe light, but the complexity and elegance is nearly overwhelming throughout Soul Jazz's twodisc set. Moulton's name was nearly synonymous with disco success and his direct influence spreads across thousands of records. It would be impossible to catalogue that career in a handful of cuts, and this compilation hardly concerns itself with that ambition. It's less of an anthology than an appetizer. Not that it matters, since nearly every song overflows with intoxicated energy. Eddie Kendricks' \"Keep on Truckin'\" establishes Moulton's modus operandi: blaring horns, strutting bass, frothing doowop, and cooing voices lined with synthesized silk. With orchestral trembles and cymbalandtympani breaks, it sounds like 11 minutes of pure culmination, inaugurating every disco cliché without sacrificing its salacious grace. B.T. Express' \"Peace Pipe\" has nothing to do with peace and everything to do with snowsnorting fury: Its serene strings give way to a convoluted arrangement of electric flutes, cracking funk, and guncrazy backup vocalists. Elsewhere, sly espionage themes and soft Brazilian bossa nova absorb the shock of the percussion on Patti Jo's \"Make Me Believe in You.\" A sort of rhythmic epilepsy disorients the steely vocals and seductive allure of Camouflage's \"You've Got the Power\", as though the drummer kept getting knocked unconscious. The result is a manic assemblage of drummed detonations. Generally, this makes for brash, flamboyant disco. But as Moulton's mixes got progressively more epic, he ably introduced elements that would influence everything from electropop to Detroit techno. Witness Orlando Riva Sound's \"Moonboots\": subterranean bubbles and pulsations, wiry synths, and fulminating guitar shimmers. Like his famous mix of the Andrea True Connection's \"More More More\", it's the aural equivalent of Vegas neon. The best track is probably Don Downing's \"Dreamworld\", an uncanny ode to claustrophobia and paranoid love. Downing hyperventilates, the strings slice like daggers, and the sweltering percussion gets more and more funereal. It's a heavily nuanced song for a genre that's often unfairly associated with numbed euphoria or crass monotony. But Moulton's principal virtue was to expand ephemeral pop songs into caterwauling cycles of elation and rhythm. Regardless of your penchant for extended breaks, this is simply some of the most electrifying music of the 1970s. "}