{"label":" self-released","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9379/homepage_large.702e3dc6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"n0 things","title":"Trees","text":"  Say one evening you decide that artistic growth and innovation be damned you'll put on Liars' They Threw Us All In a Trench and Stuck a Monument on Top, just because you need a brief blast of crunching hysteria. You listen to the first side, flip it over, listen to the second, and let the needle sink into the lock groove at the end for a while as you continue folding clothes or huffing glue or whatever you do while listening to records. Suddenly, the needle slides across the vinyl with a screech and your turntable starts to spit blood. Your speakers let out a factoryprecise churning noise, and the righteous bark of Angus Andrew is replaced with an overwhelmed wail that sounds a little like Peter Lorre limping away from a more threatening villain. This is the sound of n0 things. Or rather, this was n0 things singer/guitarist Christian Dautresme has already left the band, while bassist Pat Noecker has moved on to These Are Powers. But the former rhythm section of Liars Noecker and drummer Ron Albertson departed the band in 2002 drive these propulsive, jagged, and unabashedly ugly tracks. Liars went on to push boundaries in their own right, but they're an exception to whatever indierock constitutes these days, increasingly generalized by its more popular polite and sunny progenies. n0 things aren't quite saviors for those missing a little filth, but the sound and atmosphere they mine on Trees satisfies. Dautresme doesn't have the presence of Angus Andrew or the guitar invention of Aaron Hemphill. Still, he steers the readymade singular rhythm section to a different space, wailing like he's either trying to keep up with or run away from the pulsing quasiindustrial rhythms. Really, it just underlines how Noecker and Albertson excel on this record, varying styles and meters effortlessly while never letting up the pace. Dautresme grinds along with \"Trees\" and squeezes out a few staccato notes over \"Have It Your Way\" in a nauseous nearreggae pattern, but they finally begin to complement each other on \"Treat Us Like Children\". Here the bass takes an unexpectedly melodic turn in the chorus and Dautresme takes the reigns, sounding comfortable among the chaos.  \"Electric Chair\" is another woozy march, with a liberally deployed sample of an indistinct grinding noise. It precedes \"Coward\", far and away the disc's best track, which has an addictively evil (or is that evilly addictive?) rhythm and mustachetwirling vocal from Dautresme. The song carries a sort of impish glee, maybe from the tap of the glassbottle sounding percussion in the verses or from Dautresme's raving \"yah yah yah\"s on the chorus over the howling high notes of his guitar.  \"International Insurrection\" is a latealbum surprise, with guitar that sparkles and reverberates over a patient dub rhythm rather than spitting and grinding. It's easy to forgive the trite sentiment of the lyrics here, but not so much on the suffocating suicide ruminations of \"Offa Bridge\", which quickly grows tedious. From there, the final tracks on the disc become no less oppressive, but they blur together and become indistinguishable. Were the band still together, Trees would be an album rife with potential, and n0 things a band to watch; unfortunately, a lot of promise and a few great tracks is all we've got.  "}