{"label":" Table of the Elements","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9380/homepage_large.bcb1c3b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Tony Conrad","title":"Joan of Arc","text":" To anyone familiar with Tony Conrad's bestknown works, Outside the Dream Syndicate and Four Violins, mention of his name conjures a vivid sound: The drone of a bow slowly sawing across violin strings. Not that his other achievements vital roles in the early minimalism of the Dream Syndicate, the early incarnations of the Velvet Underground, and the early experiments of American cinema aren't equally memorable. But it's hard to picture him without a violin in his hands.  Recent archival releases on Table of the Elements are changing that perception, offering examples of Conrad's work with sinewave oscillation (Fantastic Glissando) and audio vérité (Bryant Park Moratorium Rally). Joan of Arc is the most exciting recovery yet, a solo pumporgan improvisation created to accompany Piero Heliczer's film of the same name. Conrad recorded the piece in 1968 at the home of John Vaccaro, director of New York's notorious Playhouse of the Ridiculous. Not knowing how much music Heliczer would need, Conrad played Vaccaro's aging instrument for the entire length of a onehour reeltoreel tape. (Heliczer ultimately used an excerpt for his 11minute film.)  As a display of energy and focus over an hour of unscripted time, Joan of Arc is simply impressive. Even more striking is how recognizable the piece turns out to be. On the surface, the pumporgan's low, moaning timbres, blurred by Conrad's lofi recording, share little with his violin's attacking treble. Rather than aggressive or sharp, his tone here is plaintive and often hymnlike. But the distinctive way he builds a drone, patiently layering and shifting it like wind and gravity shaping ocean waves, is unmistakable. The result is an entrancing meditation that rivals the work of latterday masters Charlemagne Palestine and Phill Niblock, as well as the postrock ambience of Stars of the Lid and Flying Saucer Attack and the metal dirges of Sunn0))) and Earth. What sets Joan of Arc apart is its allalone aura. Drones often engulf their surroundings like a blinding snowstorm, but instead of evoking cold, dark landscapes, Joan of Arc feels warmly intimate, like crackling wood in a fireplace.  Among all the sounds one might expect here churchorgan hums, cinematic chords, woozy groans lies a surprise: an odd kind of percussion. Conrad's mic registers his foot tapping on pedals and his fingers clicking keys, creating rhythmic sparks and ripples beneath his cycling drone. As the organ swells and shrinks, these tactile sounds keep the piece grounded. Conrad's long chords may blow your mind, but his tangible effort makes Joan of Arc a dream come to life.  As fascinating as it is, Joan of Arc doesn't rank with Conrad's violin classics. It's more snapshot than masterwork, a private moment made with little expectation of an audience beyond the few who would see Heliczer's film. But Conrad's willingness to pour so much thought and vigor into something so small makes Joan of Arc much more than a footnote to his storied career.  "}