{"label":" Hip-O Select","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9387/homepage_large.25dc7c47.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Complete Motown Singles, Vol. 5: 1965","text":" If Berry Gordy wasn't sitting on top of the world in 1965, he was damn close. From late 1964 through 1968, Motown had an almost mystical run of incredible commercial and artistic success, the likes of which every independent label since could only dream about achieving. Was it all gold? No, but that's not the point; besides, a perfect run would be a lot less interesting to revisit, as HipO Select has spent the last few years doing with the entire singles discography of Motown and all of its subsidiaries. Talk about thorough revisits, too the five multidisc volumes released so far have collected not only the A and B side from every single Motown ever released from its beginnings in 1959 through 1965, but all of the scheduled and unreleased A's and B's as well. This is key, because a lot of gems surface this way. On Volume 5, you need look no further than Frank Wilson's \"Do I Love You (Indeed I Do)\". More than just an interesting rarity, this song is a bloody outrageous masterpiece that rightfully became a favorite of Britain's Northern Soul DJs in spite of the fact that all but two copies of the original single were destroyed when Wilson decided his career should be in producing rather than singing. This is hardly the first time that song has been commercially available, but it's the first time it's been presented with its Bside, \"Sweeter as the Days Go By\", in its greater context as a couldhavebeen smash, alongside other Disc 6 highlights here such as \"My World Is Empty Without You\" by the Supremes, Stevie Wonder's awesome \"Uptight (Everything's Alright)\", and the Miracles' \"Grooving at the GoGo\", and those are just the biggest anthems.  This strong output in such a compacted timeframe was hardly an accident. Gordy and his staff had spent Motown's first five years calibrating their label into a genuine hit machine with intense PR campaigns spearheaded by Al Abrams, who made the Supremes the first AfricanAmericans ever to appear on the cover of a weekly TV digest. Quality Control was picking from a spoil of riches every Friday morning, and Detroit's Hitsville had established colonies in New York and L.A., where \"Do I Love You\" was produced.  As its scope expanded in some areas, the label also pulled in a few oars and retired them. Country label MelODy, the last of the genrespecific subsidiaries, was shuttered, and its final three singles are here. It's amazing that MelODy, which never scored a true hit, managed such a long and artistically fruitful run in the Motown stable, but by 1965 there was no reason to spread the risk around with the Supremes ruling the charts and Marvin Gaye, the Temptations, the Miracles, Martha and the Vandellas, and the Four Tops all coming on strong. Dee Mullins' \"Love Makes the World Go 'Round but Money Greases the Wheel\", the first of the three singles here, is about as classic a 1960s country tune as you could hope to hear.  This was a total sideshow, though, and it makes sense that Motown would trim the fat and get down to the business of cranking out monster hits. A ton of those hits came from the writing/producing team of Lamont Dozier and brothers Brian and Eddie Holland. Holland/Dozier/Holland is one of the four or five greatest songwriting teams of the 60s, right up there with Lennon/McCartney and Goffin/King. By early 65, it seemed like anything they gave the Supremes crashed the Top 20, if not the #1 spot, but they were having success across the board: The Supremes' \"Back in My Arms Again\" was replaced at #1 by the Four Tops' \"I Can't Help Myself (Sugar Pie Honey Bunch)\", which they also wrote and produced.  HDH had tapped into a wellspring of magic, for sure, but there was more to it than that. To get more exciting performances from their singers, they intentionally wrote melodies at the extremes of their ranges. That was no problem for a guy like Marvin Gaye check his almost effortless performance on \"You've Been a Long Time Coming\", the Bside of the Smokey Robinsonproduced \"I'll Be Doggone\" but you can hear how it took the Four Tops version to make it truly sensational. The Tops' Levi Stubbs is the picture of anguish on \"It's the Same Old Song\", a song I'll never get enough of, no matter how many times I hear it. Little details, like the towing chain used as percussion on Martha & the Vandellas' \"Nowhere to Run\", further illustrate their genius.  It's easy to stand back and admire the huge hits (and there were a lot of them), but there is a treasure trove of lessappreciated music here. Kim Weston's \"I'm Still Loving You\" could give a Northern Soul fan palpitations, the Marvelettes' \"I'll Keep Holding On\" drips with relaxed cool, and the Spinners' \"I'll Always Love You\" makes you wonder why the Philly soul greats didn't get much attention during their time at Motown. In the end, it seems like they were just overshadowed how do you compete with a group like the Miracles, who in '65, in addition to \"Grooving at the GoGo\", also dropped \"The Tracks of My Tears\" and \"Ooh Baby Baby\"?  Motown was huge by the end of 1965, as well it should have been, but it was also an interesting year for the label in that it planted the seeds for future moves into tougher and more socially conscious arenas over the next few years. The assassination of Malcolm X in February fell eerily close to Junior Walker's conquest of the charts with \"Shotgun\", probably the single toughest song released by the label to that point. X's death shifted Marvin Gaye onto the path of exploration that ultimately led him to his masterpiece, What's Going On, in 1971 Gaye also paid tribute that year to Nat King Cole with an album of covers, while the Supremes did the same for recently departed Sam Cooke.  A song like \"Nowhere to Run\", conceived by HDH with nothing more in mind than a pop hit, took on a strange resonance during the Watts riots a prelude to the unrest that would hit Detroit just a few years later. For the moment, though, Gordy could be comfortable in his seat atop the world and drink in the success that seemed like such a long shot to everyone around him only a halfdecade earlier.  "}