{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9391/homepage_large.a42190fd.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Isobel Campbell","title":"Milkwhite Sheets","text":" It's looking less likely that Isobel Campbell would ever have accompanied her former group, Belle and Sebastian, on such a conspicuously goodnews jaunt as this year's The Life Pursuit. I know, there goes my alternatereality comic book idea, too. The Glaswegian cellist/chanteuse introduced herself as the glass hidden in the The Boy With the Arab Strap's grass with \"Is It Wicked Not to Care?\", her first lead vocal turn: \"It will all be over when you're dead,\" she cooed. Following an early string of understated solo releases, Campbell reestablished herself as the haunted Belle on this year's Mercury Prizenominate Ballad of the Broken Seas, a rustanddust Americana duet with exScreaming Trees rumbler Mark Lanegan. Not even nine months later, Milkwhite Sheets again shows Campbell to be not so much twee as fey there's a difference, people. On a collection of original and traditional songs, the winsome singer/songwriter strides through the peatbogged haints and misty moors of British folk music, armed with an acoustic guitar and her trademark cello. Unfortunately, her girlish voice is drab beside Anne Briggs' mournful peal or the dewy, honeythroated quirks of Shirley Collins English folk icons whose doctrinal styles Campbell approximates here, with less breathtaking results. It's not Lanegan that Milkwhite Sheets misses, exactly. But this album could definitely use the sort of counterpoint his creaking overland gruffness gave her previous effort. It's difficult to slag a folk album for being unoriginal, but the letdown here is that Milkwhite Sheets sounds uninspired at a time when so many musicians are digging treasure from the same ancient, mistshrouded hills. The freakfolk scene's new weird Americana sometimes may as well be called the new weird Britannica: Druidic airs about meadows, cyclopes, and kings underpin the baroque psychedelia of outsized Philadelphia collective Espers, while San Franciscobased Vetiver filter English folk's ensorcelled strings and droning acoustic guitars through dreamy Marc Bolan workouts, and Brooklyn trio White Magic tangles banshees up in kudzu. Without even getting into Devendra Banhart or Joanna Newsom, there's also Colin Meloy's Sings Shirley Collins EP, Epitaph seashanty comp Rogue's Gallery, and the entire pre2006 catalogue of modern English folkie James Yorkston. In other words, Campbell can't exactly just coast here; other people have heard this stuff, too.  Still, it's clear Campbell has discovered a genuine love for the genre, even if she doesn't take it to particularly stirring conclusions. Spare, chimeaccented opener \"O Love Is Teasin'\" provides a pretty good indication of where the album is headed, \"then fades away like the mornin' dew,\" as Campbell sings softly. Like the frail, a cappella \"Loving Hannah\", it's a tale of a love done wrong, though on the latter the male/female characters are reversed. Elsewhere, as on \"Yearning\" or the instrumental title track, Campbell layers a cello here, an echoey acoustic guitar there to carve out a sleepy niche in the foggy ancestral forest. Instrumental \"James\" nods toward Nick Drake's \"Cello Song\" in both its lead instrument and its clipclop congadrum rhythm, but lacks its forebear's fragile humanity and distinctive, guttural melody.  Only toward the album's conclusion does Campbell hint at the even more haunted possibilities she may have in mind. Strings grind, bluster, and swoop on the murderous instrumental \"Over the Wheat and the Barley\". Dreamlike finale \"Thursday's Child\" uses a light tambourine and deep drum to anchor pinging, opiate reflections, resulting in the album's best and least traditional tune. \"Take this longing and make it something real,\" Campbell sings, like a pixie Leonard Cohen. Her desire for a selfindulgent \"hobby album\" (her words) whetted, perhaps Campbell will take this track's hazy languor and Ballad of the Broken Sea's purposeful grandeur and turn in another triumph. Word is her next duet album is with Giant Sand's Howe Gelb. Now there's a fantasy lineup I'd never even contemplated.  "}