{"label":" Arista / Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9396/homepage_large.7c8a23fb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Cee-Lo Green","title":"Closet Freak: The Best of Cee-Lo Green the Soul Machine","text":" \"It's incredible how convincing I can be with a camera pointed at me/ But sometimes rapping feel like tapping to make a cracker happy.\" That was CeeLo on the 2004 spacefunk workout \"I Am Selling Soul\". Two years later, CeeLo is dressing up like Darth Vader and covering the Violent Femmes in Gnarls Barkley, and I wonder how he feels about making crackers happy these days. Gnarls Barkley, is, of course, the reason this quickie bestof exists. While other mid1990s rap veterans thrash around trying to find ways to stay relevant in an increasingly perilous and unpredictable commercial landscape, CeeLo has found platinum success and a receptive audience for his scratchy heliumgospel lisp and his selfconsciously freaky alienloverman persona. It wasn't a preordained fate by any means; even his old Dungeon Family compatriots Outkast are now struggiling to push their voices forward without driving their fans away. For years, CeeLo was Southern rap's resident weirdo, the guy who talked about the Velvet Underground in interviews and thanked Portishead in liner notes, but who still absolutely wrecked in a battlerap context. As onefourth of the great Atlanta group Goodie Mob, CeeLo's slippery lightspeed chirp worked as a perfect foil for the deep, measured drawls of the other three, and he could howl out a furiously soulful chorus whenever needed. The group's first two albums, 1995's Soul Food and 1998's Still Standing, are completely essential. But after 1999's prettygood World Party fell short of its obvious popcrossover goals, CeeLo left the group and recorded a pair of uneven solo albums. 2002's CeeLo Green and His Perfect Imperfections and 2004's …Is the Soul Machine both have great moments, but each feels like the work of someone struggling against formal constraints and staying blissfully unaware that those constraints were a huge part of what made him great. As a rapper, CeeLo was one of the best working. As an omnivorous madscientist Princewannabe who sometimes rapped, he needed some work. But now that he's apparently left rap behind completely and his name is ringing bells, Arista has raided both of those solo albums for this completely inessential collection.  CeeLo's shortlived solo career only yielded two singles that could even charitably be described as hits. They're both here, of course, frontloaded at the beginning of the album, and they both sound great. Perfect Imperfections' \"Closet Freak\" is a tense, jittery disco vamp that explodes into a ridiculously huge funk orgy halfway through. And Soul Machine's \"I'll Be Around\" is an irresistibly sidelong Timbaland percussionstorm, though Timbaland improbably outraps CeeLo on his quick guest verse.  If CeeLo had made another 15 tracks like those two, this album would be a godsend. But both of those albums came loaded down with halfbaked funk experiments, exactly the sort of things that bestof albums are supposed to weed out. No such luck; this one makes room for the barelythere dubbop excursion \"Bass Head Jazz\" and the plinky calliopelaced circusrap \"Childz Play\", and the loose fakeIsaac Hayes spokenword dissolve \"Sometimes\". None of those songs are terrible, but none of them warrants iPod space either. A few of the tracks are actively awful: \"The Art of Noise\" is the Neptunes at their dinky Vegas loungeswinger worst, and \"Grown Man\" is a bit of cloying, boring jamband fakejazz nonsense.  On a handful of songs, though, CeeLo does exactly what he hoped to do in going solo; he takes his rap virtuosity far outside the genre's boundaries and finds unprecedentedly fierce ways to explode boxes. \"Evening News\" is the sort of track that DJ Premier never makes anymore, a restrained but psychedelic leap into the jazznoir ether; CeeLo coos and moans and screeches and then all of a sudden launches into a shockingly harsh battlerap verse before returning to the crushedvelvet loverman flourishes. And \"I Am Selling Soul\" starts out as surprisingly great spokenword spacedisco with rippling Latinfunk drums, shivering strings, and tricky little jungle breakdowns, and then it stops without warning and morphs into slow, vicious dubrap as CeeLo rails about artvs.commerce frustration: \"There is no part of me that can't be calculated into commodity.\"  But the most poignant part of Closet Freak comes in its last two tracks, a pair of prime cuts from the first Goodie Mob album: the woozily organic \"Soul Food\" and the creepily paranoid \"Cell Therapy\". Even at his best, solo CeeLo still has yet to come close to the easy transcendence he found with his old crew. Back then, he wasn't content to bitch about rap from the sidelines; he was too busy making it better. Last year, the Goodie Mob, who had soldiered on to diminishing returns without CeeLo, announced that they'd be reuniting and even recorded a new song on the Big Boi's Got Purp? Vol. 2 compilation. But now that he's touring with the Red Hot Chili Peppers and playing European festivals, CeeLo's been silent on the subject. I think that's crazy.  "}