{"label":" V2","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9398/homepage_large.014cff94.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Record Shop: 30 Years of Rough Trade Shops","text":" I don't imagine too many music geeks would quibble over the importance of London's Rough Trade record shops, or the label and distribution system that once spun off from them. Ever since the first flush of British punk rock, the Rough Trade system has been crucial to sometimes even synonymous with independent music in the UK. A more open question might be how much those shops should mean to us today, and how, and why. Rough Trade has tried to answer that question mainly by doing what all good record stores do, only on CD: Its themed historical compilations for singer/songwriters, or electronic music, or vintage indiepop are like particularly useful sale displays, and its annual Counter Culture compilations do the same thing as that Staff Recommendations bulletin board at your local shop. Note the pun in the title: They're quick to remind you that there's still a physical counter, somewhere out there, probably covered in promotional stickers.The Record Shop is Rough Trade's 30th anniversary collection, and for these discs they've brought in 30 luminaries musicians, critics, writers, fashion folks to pick one track each from across the store's history. Funny, then, that despite that and the lavish bookstyle package, filled with photos and notes from each selector this doesn't feel much like selfcongratulations: It feels far more like a love letter to the old and possibly antiquated model of physical, brickmortarandcounter record shopping. It's a big wet kiss to the whole process of going to a specific, cherished location, thumbing through haphazard piles of plasticcovered objects, and asking actual nearby people questions about what's underneath. All of which has been largely replaced by something far more democratic and convenient and, depending on whom you ask, less annoying: Sitting down at your computer, consulting reviews and databases and forums, and downloading your Trentemøller remixes direct from overseas, while teenagers yell at you in all caps for having mislabeled tracks in your download folder. Here's the weird part: If you think that it doesn't really matter either way that it's all about the music, etc. the chronological tracks on these discs might convince you otherwise. It gets going, after some Modern Lovers, with the kind of postpunk gems the Rough Trade name is most associated with: a joyous bounce from Swell Maps, the arty Swiss punk girls of Kleenex, the impossibly hyper Rezillos. Recent tracks on the other end of things are just as in line with current tastes: There's a track from Matmos, LCD Soundsystem's \"Losing My Edge\" as the perfect recordshop closer, Björk, \"The Light 3000\". And there are plenty of the sorts of things that musicgeek vinylthumbers have always loved to dig for, whether in 1980 or 2006: former Can member Holger Czukay doing shimmery exoticism with tape loops, an oldtimey cut from the Carter Family, old folk from Karen Dalton, some terrific Ethiopian jazz. But somewhere along the line, we dip into an underground music aesthetic that seems almost unthinkable today. Keep in mind that before the internet, most of us had very little amateurism in our worlds: There was not so much trash. Understanding independent music of the 1980s requires remembering this, I think, mainly so we understand why so much of it was ugly and vulgar and obsessed with trash. The record store looms large here, because it was one of few places a person could go to dig through racks and come out with something like an album by a band called LARD with a disgusting sucking fish on the cover, and filled with sludgy grinding and spastic Jello Biafra yelping (\"The Power of Lard\" appears here). This was an era of bands called things like Bongwater (\"His Old Look\" appears here) and generalized whocares slop and humor from artists who were pretty sure nobody would ever care about them.  And there was something about digging for this amazing, seemingly random trash in grotty bins or mailordering it from crappy blackandwhite ads in the backs of crappy blackandwhite publications that feels like the exact antithesis of today's context, where there is enough trash and amateurism out there that it sounds like exactly what it is (trash), and there's so much music at our fingertips that we expect musicians to deliver something genuinely great, not amaze us with junk. Now it's the electronic thrill of something tight and lively beaming over from Norway or the Congo, rather than the weird excitement of seeing the crap in your own life sliced baloney, Saturday morning cartoons, a picture of a toilet on the LP cover suddenly and weirdly for sale as a physical object, some other band of freaks infecting your space. So we go from \"just like us\" to \"please god anything but us.\" Pardon me if that sounds like nostalgia: The truth is that a lot of that stuff sounds terrible to me now, and I kind of thrill to the moment where this compilation's perfectly great Skinned Teen track gives way to Bikini Kill's livewire \"Capri Pants\", and even more to the moment after that where we come to Stereolab and Nurse With Wound's \"Simple Headphone Mind\", long a big prize for the kinds of Stereolab fans who dig through crates. By this time, the comp's well into the elegant 90s. It's a strange reminder, though, of how much the way you get your music can affect the actual music that sounds good to you and how much it can affect the way the whole process feels, and why you do it, and what you're getting out of it. It's hard to say how much the actual tracks here make a case for the record store I could download most of these to my computer in about 15 minutes, even just using a couple legal subscription services, and without having to take off my bathrobe but they certainly manage to say something about that counterbased culture, and what a difference it can make.  As for actually buying it, the problem besides prohibitive expense turns out to be that the kind of ardent shoppers being fetishized here can probably find this stuff for themselves.  "}