{"label":" Shout! Factory","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9402/homepage_large.2af0d67c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"This American Life","title":"Stories of Hope and Fear","text":" \"It's tempting to use gambling as a metaphor when writing about the Jersey Shore,\" says writer John Hodgman in his story \"Slingshot\", and I'm sure he's right. If there's one thing understood by every fan or contributor of the longrunning Public Radio International radio program \"This American Life\", it's exactly how to construct a story, where to place the metaphors, how to frame the character as a tragic hero, an ironic fool, or what have you and most important of all, how to hit the \"gotcha\" moment, the punchline or revelation that sends the story home. I'm not saying \"TAL\" has a formula, but it definitely has a toolkit, and the show's contributors know how that kit works and they are hyperaware, probably too selfaware, of the fact that they're using it. Take the first two stories on \"TAL\"'s third anthology, Stories of Hope and Fear. Jorge Just recalls the moment he realized he's a nobody: He watches someone who resides in his building get kicked off \"The Bachelorette\" for living in a shitty apartment. Just, who has an even shittier apartment one floor up, has been judged by a reality TV show. What a world! Next up is Jonathan Goldstein, far and away the most selfconscious and boorish person in the set. Goldstein strategically tells us how he used to think he'd make a great standup comic, and then carefully, with sniperlike precision, delivers the humiliating joke that made his dream go poof. Get it? Now, that's not to pick on Goldstein or Just. After all, it's tempting to think \"TAL\" should stick to people who are \"authentic\" who aren't professional writers, and don't pitch stories to radio shows. But that's bullshit. Everybody knows what makes a good story: The laws of setup and punchline, or setup and heartbreaking revelation, have been wired into our heads. \"TAL\" succeeds when it finds a story that's bigger than its teller that's so big, and so good, that no matter how well we think we know our facts ourselves, it just gets away from us.  That's also when host Ira Glass comes through for us. Sure, sometimes he talks too much, but he's a deft interviewer, and he knows what questions to ask as he proves brilliantly in \"The Babysitters\", in which two kids in the 1940s make up a babysitting gig as a way to get out of the house. A clever prank turns into a summerlong adventure, but the two elderly people who recall the story gradually reveal more important details, about the mother who drove them to it and the dysfunctional relationships that they never healed. The siblings may have shown up with a good story, but Glass leads them to a far better one.  But those remarkable, incredible stories are few here, especially compared to the previous CD collection, Crimebusters + Crossed Wires. The lowest point comes with \"TAL\" staffer Julie Snyder's story about the time her phone company overcharged her, and took 10 months to give her a refund. I listened to the whole thing, all 22 minutes, out of professional obligation, and also because I was waiting for a twist or a shock. But no, it's a story that's only rewarding to the teller, as a catharsis over some past frustration it could just as easily have been about a parking ticket she didn't deserve, or the time her neighbors kept making too much noise and at the end, I wanted to scratch that part of the CD so nobody would have to hear it again. It's the weakest link of the dudspeckled second disc, which also includes a David Sedaris story about a squirrel and a chipmunk that, while wellcrafted, smacks of Ira Glass asking, \"What have you got for us this time?\"  Sedaris' piece may be polished and writerly, but this ain't The New Yorker, and the best stories make us forget about craft altogether. David Wilcox's \"Living Inside the Box\", a monologue about his sister and his mother, is one of the saddest things I've ever heard. I mean, I was listening to it, and laughing, but then I saw where he was going oh man, I'm crying right now. And I don't mind if Wilcox knew exactly how to trick me with the setup and wind me up for the \"gotcha.\" Finally, I was too sucked in to care.  "}