{"label":" Stolen Transmission","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9406/homepage_large.edcf35b0.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Horrors","title":"We Are the Horrors EP","text":"  Just as the phrase suggests, rock'n'roll is a music of tension and contradictions, its 50year history defined by a cyclical action/reaction relationship between prefab spectacle and ragged authenticity. So what to make of a band like the Horrors, who like it both ways? Looking like they just walked out of Tim Burton's costuming department, this week's NME poster children appear to be the sort of band that spends more money on wardrobe than recording budgets. And a little mascara (and backing from Ultragrrrl) goes a long way toward explaining how a fledgling garagerock band with just a short EP to their name are already starring in Chris Cunninghamdirected videos with Samantha Morton and getting produced by Nick Zinner instead of playing the Dirty Water Club for 50 miserable sods on a Tuesday night bill with the Country Teasers. Strip away their fanciful Edward Gorey getups and the Horrors may as well just be the Horrors i.e., the less celebrated, Iowabased In the Red band of the same name (who I imagine will be contacting their lawyers any day now). But even if the UK Horrors' debut fivesong EP will hardly seem shocking to anyone who experienced the B52s, the Cramps, or the Damned the first time around, when compared to typical Brit indietabloid fashionista fare, they're a refreshingly lewd and crude anomaly. For all their sartorial extravagance, the Horrors are studious garagepunk purists who like it raw to the bone: bastardized blues scales, corrosive peakedlevel production, and, in the absence of the technical skill to pull off a guitar solo, just scrape the strings and/or lean on the organ. Frontman Faris Badwan's hysterical singspeak strikes the right balance of rigor and ridiculousness, yelping out campy character studies like \"Sheena Is a Parasite\" and \"Crawdaddy Simone\" over \"Rock Lobster\" rhythms tailormade for gogo dancers with Bride of Frankenstein beehives. And even if the concept of British gorehounds covering a song about Jack the Ripper feels just as tired as American industrial bands referencing Charles Manson, the last song here suggests the band have higher aspirations than simply giving us a more badass seasonal alternative to \"The Monster Mash\": As the lone Horrors track that doesn't draw attention to its own horrorness, \"Excellent Choice\" intensifies its manic momentum with dueling, dissonant vocal lines that sound menacing enough even without any serialkiller shoutouts.  And back to the grave we go after just five songs and 12 minutes which, according to Britishpress legend, also happens to be the average length of a Horrors concert. It's unclear whether the band's abrupt stage exits are part of a Jesus and Mary Chaininspired deconstruction of performance conventions, or an implicit understanding that you don't really need to hear more than five songs of this stuff at any given time. Or maybe it's just the band's comment on its own predicted shelf life. But even if the Horrors' shtick already seems played out by Nov. 1, at least we have today. Release the brats.  "}