{"label":" Verve Forecast","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9412/homepage_large.c38865ca.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Marie Antoinette OST","text":" PART 1 Full disclosure: I haven't seen this movie yet. I'm planning on it, in a few days. While I can't yet speak to the movie's themes, or even its use of these songs, I do know that Marie Antoinette which has been anticipated with wrung hands ever since the first trailer hit YouTube, splicing New Order onto scenes of preRevolution Versailles splendor strolls a very fine line in even attempting to portray the interior life of a public figure who is still divisive more than 200 years after her death. So never mind that the film was booed at Cannes it was bound to upset someone. The period and the person remain hotbeds of debate, socially and politically. Those issues play out in the movie's soundtrack, a fascinating collection that rises above Knight's Tale stuntscoring or Jubilee graverobbing to comment directly on the title character herself. Marie Antoinette is a soundtrack as sovereign entity, married to the film but not dependent on it for meaning or listener enjoyment. Say what you want about Sofia Coppola the filmmaker, but Coppola the soundtrack auteur is uniquely intuitive and confidently complex (this soundtrack, like those for her previous films, is produced by Brian Reitzell, although it seems completely her own). Going into this review and coming out of it, I'd place her above even Wes Anderson and Todd Haynes in her ability to illuminate emotion with music. For her, pop songs aren't just the aural equivalent of mood lighting, but active agents of characterization. In The Virgin Suicides and Lost in Translation, she used music as dialogue, expressing characters' deepest desires even when they didn't have the selfawareness to verbalize them. Think of the neighborhood boys playing LPs over the phone for the Lisbon girls in The Virgin Suicides, those anthems to personal freedom and adolescent abandon that only made them feel more doomed. Think of Scarlett Johansson's Charlotte singing \"Brass in Pocket\" right to Bill Murray's Bob Harris in Lost in Translation, begging him to find her unique. Think of him answering her with \"More Than This\".  Similarly, the songs on Marie Antoinette speak just as strongly as dialogue and on a level that doesn't demand knowledge of the movie itself, just a general idea of the issues at play in a retelling of the partygirl queen. Coppola collects mostly postpunk and New Pop hits on the first disc, letting them bridle against each other. One of the main complaints about the postpunk revival in indie music has been that new bands seem to have little to no grasp of the extreme politics that created that music; to some extent modern musicians can't relate most have never had to struggle nearly as hard as their influences, and almost all of them participate in a system that allows them to get their music heard almost immediately by a wide audience. Coppola, however, sees the political possibilities in New Order, Bow Wow Wow, and Adam & the Ants and she lets them fight out the politics of Marie Antoinette's era. With its austere guitars and antimaterialistic lyrics, Gang of Four's \"Natural's Not in It\" slyly, viciously undercuts the primitive decadence of Adam & the Ants' \"Kings of the Wild Frontier\", as well as Bow Wow Wow's bourgeois odes to luxury \"Aphrodisiac\" and \"I Want Candy\", which unironically equate materialism with desire. The soundtrack is no polemic, however: Even at her fluffiest, Bow Wow Wow's Annabella Lwin track makes frizzy desire and madcap consumption sound attractive and inviting, as a lifestyle if not as a political statement.  In this heated context, the trustfund rock of the Strokes' \"What Ever Happened\" sounds almost like a punchline (although Coppola gets extra credit for drawing from the underrated Room on Fire). Equally suspect are sugary petit fours like the Cure's pillowmountain \"Plainsong\" and Windsor for the Derby's \"The Melody of a Fallen Tree\". Even the excerpt of Vivaldi's \"Concerto in G\", the only classical piece on the first disc, sounds apt in this setting, coyly mimicking the revving rhythms of the rock songs around it. Surprisingly, the Radio Dept. fall deftly between the two sides: \"Pulling Our Weight\" and \"I Don't Like It Like That\" sound lushly economical and positively antibourgeois, not wasting a single note or sound.  If the first disc is a mixtape debate, the second is a box of bonbons a more traditional soundtrack, similar to Lost in Translation in its mix of new and borrowed instrumentals with lowkey pop songs. Two Aphex Twin pieces \"Jynweythek Ylow\" and \"Avril 14th\" balance synthetic sounds with organic moods, while Dustin O'Halloran's piano works mix languorously with subdued tracks by Squarepusher and Air. Only the Kevin Shields remix of Bow Wow Wow's grating take on \"Fools Rush In\" sounds out of place here it's better understood and marginally forgivable as the ultimate bourgeois luxury, a pointless cover of a chestnut that would be more fitting on the first disc. The exact opposite of \"Natural's Not in It\", the song is a mouthful of frosting: sweet and creamy but a little sickening. Then again, it's also the only break from Disc 2's supperclub pleasantness and passive moodsetting the oldhat soundtrack tact. I can't help but think that Coppola has given herself over to the attractiveness of luxury: Disc 2 is the very thing that Disc 1 warns against.  PART 2  I've just returned from the theater, where I was mildly disappointed in Marie Antoinette, but nevertheless oddly intrigued. A teen movie in period garb, the film struck a weird balance in its use of music and politics: There seemed too little of either, yet it was clear that any more would have overloaded the screen. \"Natural's Not in It\" plays over the opening credits, acknowledging the class issues involved in any retelling of Antoinette's story. And yet it sounds like a feint. Coppola keeps the postpunk music to a minimum, favoring the Disc 2 instrumentals and the vocalless sections of songs by the Strokes, Windsor for the Darby, and Radio Dept. On the whole, these songs sound slightly disconnected from the scenes they score, and the punk/postpunk aesthetic feels oddly appended. There's the nowfamiliar type treatment for the title, mimicking the cover art for Never Mind the Bollocks, and there's a short montage featuring headlines scrawled across Antoinette's portrait, a visual allusion to the aesthetic of Derek Jarman's Jubilee. But what to make of these references? What do they add up to?  Likewise, what to make of Coppola's handling of class issues? She keeps the movie focused squarely, even claustrophobically, on the Queen, assessing her just as the aristocracy do, albeit less viciously. There are intimations of popular unrest and of the uprising to come, but the public is largely absent from this movie as far from Coppola's concerns as they are from Antoinette's. When we do see them, they are literally a faceless mob as inhuman to the director as they are to Antoinette. Like the Queen, Coppola doesn't seem to know what to do with them. She's backed herself into a corner: If she were to address the issue any more directly, it would fundamentally redefine the focus of the movie and inexorably cast Antoinette as a villain, ruining her careful and often affecting portrait.  So, looking over what I wrote before I saw Marie Antoinette, when I had just the music to consider, I'm tempted to say that I read too much into the soundtrack, that perhaps I gave Coppola too much credit based on her previous films. Then again, these songs chosen and sequenced with obvious care do for Marie Antoinette what the screenplay cannot: They talk out these issues in the background, at a remove from the action but in a way that is still very present and relevant. They allow Coppola to have her cake and eat it too.  "}