{"label":" Hollywood","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9419/homepage_large.de2715c2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"Sparta","title":"Threes","text":"  Hey, it's another album by Sparta. Hey, it sounds like they're positioning themselves as a ballsy version of Snow Patrol. Hey, that lead vocalist is really going for that BonodoesTheBends vibe. Hey, I wonder who's actually going to give a shit. Oh, wait, I know suckers searching for some aural comfort food, something to occupy their ears that won't make them work too hard. Or old farts that hear a bit of Jawbox in some of these tracks. Or the kids that are suckers for Mount Rushmoresized Marshall stacks and Red Rocks grandeur in postpunk couture. Or folks that can't find the new Coldplay or Muse CDs at Circuit City. For those of you ready to zing me for my purported lack of a life, please note that I am all of the above. Despite my having procured this album through nefarious means (hello to our RIAA overlords), I will undoubtedly pony up the eight bucks at my local electronics emporium to purchase this CD. I will shamelessly airdrum along to \"Erase It Again\" or \"Weather The Storm\" in the secluded comfort of my apartment. If I can find my iPod, I'll even throw the album on there so I can pantomime like an Ian MacKaye wannabe to most of these tracks while waiting for every light between where I was and where I'm going to turn green. My finger might find the fastforward button for slower tracks like \"Unstitch Your Mouth\", because if I wanted to listen to OK Computer, I wouldn't be listening to Sparta. But aside from those minor speed bumps, I will put this album on when I don't have any particular interest in listening to anything in particular. And after two weeks or so of playing this record into the ground, I'll delete it from my iPod, and replace it with something equally innocuous and inoffensive. It's that replaceable quality of Threes that gets my goat. It's purely coincidental that Sparta themselves are now partially reconstituted, with one original member defecting to that other At the Drive In spinoff. Sparta's personality is their lack of personality. The group is a conglomeration of influences that, while pleasant enough, doesn't rise above being anything more than a mixing board of coolsounding favorites. CD racks in the Rock section are full of this type of stuff McGriddlelike concoctions proffered by professional musicians that take great tastes and slap them together for quick and easy consumption. Sometimes, stuff like this sounds like the greatest thing in the world. Sometimes (to steal a line from Death Cab for Cutie), it's nothing more than the sound of settling.  "}