{"label":" High Plains Sigh","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9420/homepage_large.1b962a4f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Chris Dahlen","artist":"The Places","title":"Songs for Creeps","text":"  The best way to follow Amy Annelle and the rotating cast of her band, the Places, isn't through the albums that come every two or three years, but through the emails in between. She writes to her mailing list every few months with messages from road trips and new adopted homes, scrawling a few lines or a colorful anecdote like a short but careful postcard from wherever she's hanging her hat. And right after selfreleasing her excellent, scrapbooklike covers album Fawns for Fangs, she returns with Songs for Creeps, another disc whose disjointed recording process reflects her travels: One song was recorded out in a shack, and all of the rest sound like they were. Put a seashell to your ear and you'll hear the ocean but pick up an empty bottle from the parking lot of a gas station, and you'll hear something like Annelle's low, murmuring voice. The brash pickax guitars of opener \"Miners Lie!\" and that's \"lie\" as in \"dead\" are immediately quelled for a series of hushed ballads. The roughest and bluesiest, \"The Lion's Share\", sounds like an old 78 that Annelle found of herself in a flea market; other slow, sweet melodies drift over mellotrons or faroff steelpedal, though when the going gets rough, Annelle's customary murmur sometimes rises to a yowl. But it ends with the sweet and lovely \"Worse & Wise\", about the unwelcome return of a longlost lover. Its presentation is as delicate as flowers you buy at that gas station, but the intent is so pure it's irresistible. If the patina of road dust makes the album more romantic than her past works, there's another quality to the record that's hard to put your finger on: In the strange gaps and distant radio transmissions, you almost feel she's listening for something that she can't catch on record. Where the last one, Call it Sleep, was dreamy, this is haunted; with so many images of death and disappearance in the lyrics, it's not a stretch to wonder if she's leaving room on the tape for the dead. And that's not to suggest she rides around with an Ouija board in the back of her car, but to say that with so many references to distance, detachment, lovers coming and going, or the filters she puts between herself and the listener like singing into a telephone mic on \"The Damn Insane Asylum\" she's echoing those who made the ultimate departure. And aesthetically at least, the effect is compelling; it brings a strange beauty to a record that already has plenty of the usual kind.  "}