{"label":" Xeric","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9424/homepage_large.4bc52095.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"R. Keenan Lawler","title":"Music for the Bluegrass States","text":" \"Sound is pretty boring if you can't see and hear the color,\" guitarist R. Keenan Lawler said in a 2001 interview on the website Documentation and Discourse. The idea that music has to be abstract to entertain may seem counterintuitive, but Lawler's multihued work makes a convincing case. Bowing, strumming, and plucking his National Steel resonator (a booming 1920s guitar made of heavy nickelplated brass), Lawler weaves probing instrumentals that can be raw, dissonant, and rambling, but are never boring. That's because Lawler's semistructured approach to improvisation frees him up to explore a wide variety of sounds. On Music for the Bluegrass States, recorded live in his hometown of Louisville, Lawler travels through patches of melody, digressions into tangents, and spots of pure abstraction. His fertile playing, amplified by the resonator's ringing tone, evokes the avantfolk of John Fahey, the minimalist drone of Tony Conrad, the backwoods blues of Charley Patton, and the outsider chill of Jandek. But ultimately Lawler is a lone, restless artist charting his own crooked path to the outer reaches of guitar invention. Each stop along that road is engaging. Opener \"That Train Has Left the Station\" hammers at percussive chords until they bleed stray notes, while \"Wall Climbing Spirit\" knits offtune plucks into a headrush of strums. On the more tuneful side of the album's wide street, \"1930\"'s creaky picking creates its own 78rpm hiss, and the rhythmic melody of \"A Universal Rose\"' sticks in the brain like a rustling scarecrow in a windy field. Two tracks fully unite Lawler's twin affinities for tunefulness and abstraction. His bowing on \"One of These Days\" starts like an orchestra warming up, then morphs into hoedownworthy stringfiddling. Even more allencompassing is \"The Air on Mars Is Hard to Breathe, We'll Just Have to Stay in Louisville\", a 26minute piece that consumes long drones, intricate fingerpicking, and a fervent passage in which mantralike strums entrance Lawler into selfhypnosis. But then much of this album is introspective, like a conversation Lawler is having with himself. He has collaborated with many groups, from Pelt to My Morning Jacket to Matmos, but years of playing alone grants his music an insidethebrain aura. (Even his contribution to Matmos' The Civil War was done alone, as he gave the group a recording of himself playing guitar inside a sewer pipe.) This lonely air gives Music for the Bluegrass States the feel of a journey, which is enhanced by pyramidshaped sequencing. The shortest tracks come at the beginning and end, while \"The Air on Mars…\" occupies the middle, like a mount that Lawler scales to meet a sonic Maharishi. That trek may be the album's peak, but the conclusion is where Lawler encounters a reallife hero: freejazz legend Albert Ayler. Covering Ayler's funereal \"Our Prayer\", Lawler replaces multihorn blare with singleguitar solitude, turning a soulful ballad into a private elegy. It's a dazzling trick, but then all of Music for the Bluegrass States is enchanting proof that in Lawler's hands, a shiny guitar can become a magic wand.  "}