{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9430/homepage_large.d4005933.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Mudsuckers","title":"Mudsuckers","text":"  Evolution or at least reproduction, its bytheepisode catalyst favors survival. As such, nature claims several fairly intricate means to that end, systems of existence that make the \"Live, eat, fuck, die\" model a bit reductive. The millimeterlong tardigrade, for instance, can end its metabolism, enter a state of indefinite cryobiosis, and emerge as healthy as ever in favorable conditions years later. Though the California coastline's coolest goby fish, the longjaw mudsucker, is a bit less dramatic, it's every bit as industrious: A native of tidal zones, the mudsucker is often left without water for swimming during low tides. It survives by crawling into a selfmade burrow, sealing it with mud and entering a state of hypoxia. Quite literally, it breathes the air and ingests and excretes the swarm of microscopic invertebrates it sucks from surrounding mud. Imagine it: A fish, buried beneath, waiting for the next tide as its signal out. There, baking beneath the sun and without the water to swim, it looks still. But inside the burrow, the mudfish is respiring, metabolizing, living. Likewise, each of the five environments of Mudsuckers the collaboration of West Coast experimenters Robert Horton, Charalambides' Tom Carter, and Yellow Swans' Pete Swanson and Gabriel Mindel Saloman look dormant from above. Each track is marked by its singular environment, though things seem to be shifting, albeit slowly, just outside of the borrows: \"Electric Sunflower\" all droning guitar tones barely moving over the track's several minutes, signaling that something cyclical is slowing, coming to an end, retiring sounds much like the setting sun looks. \"Here Comes the Mud Dragons\", though, is a nineminute, crackedearth affair. Guitars, hyperfrequency sine waves and bowed and manipulated cymbals set up a piercing, escalating hum. By the sevenminute mark, it's a paranoid roar, as if the tide is late and the mud is drying. The life beneath is at risk. But the din eventually settles, the burrow holding against the elements. But those are only surface assessments, and it's not that simple. Remember the mudfish, the organism looking for air, food, and survival in the burrow it built. In and under the mud, life is teeming with microbes here, mimicked by a load of glitches, microsounds and intentional accidents permeating the substrate. Beneath an almostpastoral drone on \"Electric Sunflower\", the tiniest bits of junkhouse percussion rattle around and are spontaneously swallowed by the welkin hum. Sometimes, however, even those dominating guitars shift out of their premier roles, swelling or contracting or flinching as the life below demands.  Nowhere is this analogous relationship more obvious than on \"Endocrine Disrupters\", not coincidentally Mudsuckers' best 18 minutes. Here, with a scabrous tone that steadily downshifts its delay, it's as if the fish is decelerating, circling for entry and slogging into a temporary residence. Screeching guitars thrust into static roar, creating an overhauling environment through sheets of feedback. But Horton's drum machines explode from beneath, like a school of microbes flooding the burrow by instinct. A tenor saxophone played by guest Henry Kurtz sounds as though it is physically searching for air, and Horton's corroded cymbal splashes are like the body of the fish clashing against the burrow's constraints.  It becomes impossible, of course, to identify the sounds being ingested and excreted, to identify an instrument's entry point from the resulting glut of sounds effected by the walls and strings of gear Saloman's pedals, Carter's loops, Horton's computers and cassette decks and loops, Swanson's overpowering reeltoreel apparatus in these sessions. It sounds like a fuckingmess microcosm existing inside of a fucking mess of a world, where the tide knows it has to come back (things start to settle 15 minutes after entry) only because that's the way it's always been. Even if you've never left your front porch, you know exactly how surviving in such a world feels.  "}