{"label":" XL","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9432/homepage_large.50ad4ec1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Serious Times","text":" Compiled by former Fader editor Knox Robinson and mixed live on the first disc by U.S. reggae maestro Max Glazer of Federation Sound, Serious Times is, while slightly late in coming, one of the first Barnes & Noble friendly artifacts of the roots reggae renaissance. Okay, maybe \"renaissance\" is a little strong. Nonragga Jamaican music never went anywhere VP's Strictly the Best compilations have given space to postBob Marley roots and lover's rock for years. And \"conscious\" dancehall has never been a contradiction; some JA deejays seem to flip 'tween consciousness and nastiness on a yearly, or even recordbyrecord, basis. But the moderate worldwide success of Damian Marley's 2005 single \"Welcome to Jamrock\" was a good journalist's hook on which to hang a movement. \"Jamrock\" might have you imagining thundering records full of Public Enemystyle political rhetoric or Rastafarian pronouncements of the Lord's judgment. But on the evidence, neoroots really means lover's rock, the frothy, bongbubbling sound of reggae love songs, whether sung to a lady or a weed sack. That makes Turbulence's \"Notorious\", Serious Times' opening track, an anomaly. On \"Notorious\", the lowend is more Decatur than Kingston; it has the same forceful, hiphopderived oomph as \"Jamrock\", without sounding a thing like it. And Serious Times could have done with a few more tracks with the same righteous gangsta lean. There are certainly other highlights, though. QQ's \"Poverty\" is the best single made by a grade school kid in eons. Another Bad Creation may have swung its beat on the playground, but QQ bounces to a tradition that stretches back to Althea and Donna's \"Uptown Top Ranking\" if not \"Iko Iko\", with a little prepubescent sociopolitical theory besides. Perfect's \"Hand Cart Boy\" is plain charming, especially when he claims that he knows he may not have the ducats but his lady is still \"coming home to [his] little hut.\" But the difference between this and Junior Byles' \"Curly Locks\" is like the difference between, I don't know, Marvin Gaye and TPain.  I don't say that by way of disparaging Perfect or the neoroots movement, merely to set the context. Perhaps it's being raised in the boisterous world of 21st century dancehall, where everythinglouderthaneverythingelse is the quickest way to make an impact at a booming sound system party, but these singers never murmur or coo. They almost always sound like they're shouting. Maybe in 2006, especially in a place as rough and tumble as Jamaica, even love songs can't relax. Sizzla, heard here on \"Ain't Gonna Fall\", has made a career out of sounding moved to the brink of breakdown, his voice cracking and crackling with romantic or religious hysteria.  The music, likewise, always sounds like it's shouting, right down to the dancehallstyle sirens and gunshots and vinyl spinbacks Glazer punches in throughout his mix. There's little of the, well, rootsiness of roots reggae. Some tracks, with their basic dub bass lines and overthecounter skanks, sound like what the lab coats at ProTools might cook up between World of Warcraft games for the \"reggae\" setting. It's almost too easy to praise old school reggae for its earthiness 'cause it was recorded on a fourtrack in a shack, and it's equally too easy to diss modern (nondancehall) reggae for being synthetic because computers are cheap even in places with no WalMarts. But even as a fan of some of the most synthetic music imaginable, I find myself frequently cringing at Serious Times' ersatz horns and other ersatz whatnot.  And again, I don't say this to set up some bullshit fake/real thing, a reversal of the way so many new school critics diss neosoul because it doesn't sound like it was banged out in Fruity Loops in a ghetto basement. Comparing Serious Times to classic Studio One sides is a mug's game, like bitching that D4L isn't Outkast. Lovelorn dreads may not speak directly to your experience, but they're speaking to someone. Sure, we're broke, in political turmoil at home, and somehow once again jousting with nuclear warheads and if you think you've got it bad, probably reading an internet music site in school or at work, folks down Yard probably have it much worse but people are still falling in love. Even at its saddest and most serious, Jamaican music has stressed public communion and joyful abandon in other words, it's about getting people together to dance, and hopefully think a little, too. Serious Times may be a glossy throwback if that's not a contradiction in terms but play it for a roomful of dancers and it's sure to get the air horns blowing. "}