{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9438/homepage_large.f1cf263d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Plague Songs","text":" Plague Songs was commissioned by Artangel, a British organization that has funded crucial art projects by Tony Oursler, Rachel Whiteread, Matthew Barney, and Janet Cardiff, among others. But the art world's money lenders aren't always on top of things musically. Nab your favorite museum director's iPod and count the Fischerspooner tunes. That said, the concept's great: Each track focuses on one of the plagues unleashed in the book of Exodus. For those who haven't read it, he dreamt up a pretty inventive and persuasive beatdown on the Egyptians water turned to blood, gnats and locusts swarmed, lice itched, hail fell, your firstborn child (and livestock) died, there was darkness and boils and rains of frogs. Like the plagues themselves, these songs didn't appear by their lonesome. Each was written and recorded exclusively for the project and performed live by artists whom the press release refers to as \"local singers and musicians\" as part of \"The Margate Exodus\", an arty reencatment of the Israelites' trek to the Promised Land (in Margate, England, of course). Additionally, Penny Woolcock wrote and directed a film, Exodus, set for a 2007 release. That fits somehow as well perhaps this'll be the soundtrack? As a chipper punk at Corpus Christi grammar school I once asked: Why didn't the frogs eat all the bugs? Nobody answered it then and nobody answers it here, but some of the musicians do take an inventive approach to holy writ. For example, Rufus Wainwright croons through \"Katonah\", a song about the death of the firstborn. Ingeniously, he memorializes his cousin Jack Johnson, who died in a freak accident at age 19, close to when he was asked to write a piece for the project. As an added resonance, Wainwright's sister, Lucy, provides the track with female vocals. Potentially heartrending, right, but we can all admit that Wainwright's songs, though often pretty, sound basically the same. This is no exception. He could very well be bummed about some kid with a balloon.  In the notes for his nearly a capella \"Darkness\" Scott Walker says, \"In order to avoid purely passive reception, memory kicked in with an elemental lesson from childhood schooldays that the filament of the very first light bulb was a thread of carbonized cotton.\" Suffocating in the nighmarish shadows of The Drift, Walker is backed here by spare percussion and intermittently overdriven by a highpitched choir of banshees until some soulful background singers decide they're \"gonna heat it up\" and then ask \"and when do we go?\"  Some pieces are more pleasing when the background info is kept in mind, as with Brian Eno and Robert Wyatt's ambient, buzzy take on \"Flies\". Wyatt recorded a tape of himself making fly sounds; Eno doubled and tripled and multitracked them amid airy vocals and synth. It's somehow really moving. Laurie Anderson's carefully modulated organandstringdriven rumination draws inspiration from the autistic author and inventor, Temple Grandin, who designs \"humane\" (or at least less horrific) livestock slaughtering facilities, and has published books about her ability to mindmeld with cattle. This is coupled with Anderson's own attempted mindmeld experience at a bullfight, fascinated but saddened by its final trumpet, \"the last sound [the bull] hears in this dusty world.\" Stephin Merritt provides lice with, as he mentions in the notes, a disco beat. It's pleasing (and pretty cheeky \"fleas, fleas, STD's, all of Egypt on her knees\"), but also pretty standard Merritt. Great title: \"The Meaning of Lice\".  Then, of course, come the duds. Cody ChestnuTT does \"The Seed\" for \"Boils\". Maybe he thought they meant \"blister\" in the Violent Femmes sense? (I'm being a jerk, but he actually does mention \"faithful offspring of my seed.\") Frou Frou singer/songwriter and Garden State/\"O.C.\" soundtrack regular Imogen Heap whips up shiny Warhol for \"Glittering Clouds (Locusts)\", envisioning the swarm as a sort of rave. Scottish Fence Collective folkie King Creosote (aka Kenny Anderson) simply drifts into the ether. Tiger Lilies find slightly more success: Vocalist Martyn Jacques has a great, womanly warble, but his London circus cabaret trio just sorta bores. And finally, UK rapper Klashnekoff takes the blood plague onto city streets in the form of blood stains and innercity violence, using the Lord's Prayer as a chorus. Nice idea, but cliché.  While listening, I couldn't help thinking of musicians who seemed like naturals for the project Xiu Xiu, David Tibet, Sunn 0))). That, or the fact that The Drift is already basically the perfect plague rain.  "}