{"label":" Kill Devil Hills","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9439/homepage_large.e4d3e98b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Johnny and the Moon","title":"Johnny and the Moon","text":"  Utilitarian record sleeves come branded with three bits of information for potential consumers: The name of the artist, the title, and the tracklist. The front cover of Johnny and the Moon's eponymous album fulfills the first two identifiers, and, expectedly, the flipside lists the songs. That's easy enough. There's one fact, though, that the cover doesn't mention. Not that it's essential for assessment, but as marketing goes, it would probably be wise to slap on a sticker conveying that this is the latest project from Dante DeCaro, the Hot Hot Heat guitarist with enough sense to leave that band and join Wolf Parade following the freefall that was Elevator. Based on the sleeve alone, a wouldbe buyer could instead make more important extrapolations about this Canadian band: The group's name is a truncated take on Johnny and the Moondogs, the moniker the Beatles went by for a time in 1959, when they were still in high school. And that the album is selftitled likely signals that it's either a debut or a shift in direction. But, the real signifier here is \"Green Rocky Road\", the first of 11 tracks listed. Its namesake, \"Green, Green Rocky Road\", is a folk mainstay, written in 1961 by Robert Kaufman and Len Chandler and recorded at least a dozen times in the past four decades by people ranging from Dave Van Ronk to Emmylou Harris. Contemporary recreations of folk standards with nebulous, exposed faultlines? Sounds likely. Indeed, Johnny and the Moon is another band interested in attaching traditional folk tones and topics to contemporary rock idioms, but it's a long cry from the cyclical revivalism and avant hybridization that have both enjoyed surprising success this decade. Instead, it splits the difference, a keen realization of rockborne appeal brightened by folk's propensity for parable. Eight tracks are written for drums, voice, and either acoustic guitar, banjo, mandolin, or piano, but almost all of them pepper those arrangements ever so slightly with electronics, keyboards, and bells.  \"Green Rocky Road\", for instance, gallops to sleigh bells, chimes, crotales, and an acoustic guitar, and lines like, \"Hooka, tooka, soda cracker/ Does your mamma chew tobacco?\" are handled with a traditionalist's reverence. But later, Johnny parades atop an aged saloon piano for \"When You're All Alone\" with a driving midsection a beerandvinegar, barroom yowl drunk on piercing harmonica and a highflying, atonal horn that happily violates the stereotypical purity of such recorded balladry. Even the mandolinhelmed \"The Ballad of Scarlet Town\" punches up the lonely lusts of young girls and mountain men with bigbottom drums and a shoutalong, campfire chorus. Its immediacy is built on sheer pop exuberance with an ancestral spirit, at least, close at hand.  But the album falls short in its reach, especially when consciously straddling hemispheres of antiquity and reinvention. At its worst, the playing seems indecisive, belabored with material that seems borrowed and, worse still, impersonal. \"Oleanna\" a rewriting of an obscure tune revived by the Kingston Trio in 1959 is especially timid, as though the longdistance love it employs is the kind of thing that's been experienced only in books. Folk music is a deep, daunting well and drawing from it requires preparation, if not caution. Given the diversity of North American folk relative to the evenkeel whole Johnny manages, this is, at times, a novice affair, or a brokenbottle weekender between Jesse Malin (DeCaro sounds just like him) and Ryan Adams (a Carolinian). Still, these nontraditionalist interpretations are imperfectly full of promise and earnest enthusiasm, and that's a start. "}