{"label":" Crammed Discs","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9442/homepage_large.c80e2e55.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Roots of Rumba Rock: Congo Classics 1953-1955","text":" There's a story, possibly apocryphal, that when Paul Simon traveled to South Africa to record Graceland, he had to teach some of the local musicians to navigate the unfamiliar minor keys of his tricky songs. White man's burden be damned that may make Simon the first person in the world to openly boast of bringing sadness to Africa. Not that South Africans, or millions of other Africans, didn't have plenty of reasons of their own to be sad. That holds particularly true for those in the Congo, who for hundreds of years suffered through not just slavery but the misguided colonialist policies of Europe. But if there was a silver lining to this misery, it was the subsequent rise of the Congolese rumba, one of the most genial and universal of African's many vibrant forms of music. For that, as the helpful liner notes of Roots of Rumba Rock: Congo Classics 19531955 point out, we can thank the fruits of crosspollination. Just as the arrival of slaves in the Caribbean helped birth both Cuban son and bossa nova, among other strains of Latin music, so did the roundabout return of these musical mutations to Kinshasa (then still Leopoldville) help explain the evolution of rumba in the heart of the Belgian Congo. Add to that the Belgian laissezfaire attitude toward the natives' various entertainments and it wasn't long before the people's music radiated outward as truly pop music.  The rumbas, beguines and other dance music variations on Roots of Rumba Rock (originally recorded for the Loningisa label) lay out a lot of the template still being adapted and altered by current Congolese acts. The frenetic pluck and plink of thumb pianos drive De Malo's \"Towuti Brazza Toye Kisasa\", while the early Solovox synthesizer provides some of the winsome melody in De Wayon's \"Nalekaki Na Nzela\". Elsewhere, distortion artfully finds its way into the compositions. Several tracks from early pioneers like Bowane are included, while \"Bana Bosenge\" represents the same circle of unemployed street performers who would later give us panAfrican rumba star Franco.  So does it rock? Well, no, not really. You have to be pretty sharpeared to pick out the relatively unusual intrusions of such rock signifiers as electric guitar or piano. But (and back to those liners) the two discs of songs collected here do represent a certain form of rock and roll rebellion, namely fun in the face of oppression. These upbeat tunes generally tackle light subjects like romantic foibles and getting drunk (as well as the occasional paeans to women's rights), and if the music is quaint compared to the congotronics outbursts Crammed Discs has compiled elsewhere, you can definitely hear its influence coursing through contemporary Congolese music.  In fact, though the recording quality dates the music, the songs themselves sound as timeless as they are joyful, underscoring this comp's place as a sort of African music Rosetta Stone. It's simultaneously an indirect reminder of the hardships imposed on so many Africans while a spirited reminder that for many of those same people, music represented the ultimate escape from weighty woes.  "}