{"label":" Thrill Jockey","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9448/homepage_large.5210b594.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Lithops","title":"Mound Magnet","text":"  To understand Jan St. Werner's work as Lithops, it helps to be familiar with Sonig, the label he started in 1997 with Frank Dommert. Sonig releases a certain amount of accessible music, such as Jason Forrest's noisy mashup The Unrelenting Songs of the 1979 Post Disco Crash and Nathan Michel's The Beast. But they also regularly explore the outer limits of listenability, from suites for analog squiggles by Michel Waisvisz to free improv Game Boy experiments by the Fan Club Orchestra. For Lithops, as for his label, St. Werner is interested in examining the boundaries of what can be considered music, walking the borders between playfulness and violence, seeing what lies beyond the threshold of annoyance. The experimental nature of this approach means some Sonig releases sound like nothing else out there; it also means that a good chunk of the catalog is something you'll put on very rarely. Here on his fourth fulllength solo release, the Lithops project is more multifaceted than ever. Early records like Didot and Uni Umit worked in a realm similar to where Mouse on Mars was at the time, compressing the main gig's pop experiments into short, crude, and often humorous nuggets. But Scrypt, released in 2003, found St. Werner veering into abstraction of almost incomprehensible density, every corner stuffed with jagged digital distortion that took many listens to dissect. Mound Magnet sometimes heads for Scrypt's noisy hills, but it also makes room for more buoyant moments. Tracks like \"Opposite of Windward\" and \"Vortext\" aren't easy listens, with the former's extreme surges in dynamics, machinegun tempo, and rapidly crisscrossing layers of abrasive synths, and the latter's harsh metallic whine that serves as the central motif. But these are Mound Magnet's highlights, exhibiting St. Werner's original and highly developed musical language. All sorts of spazzy IDM in the late 1990s strove for this level of quickcut abrasion, but St. Werner exhibits patience and refinement, letting the songs unfold in a logical manner despite the harshness. These tracks also hint at why Mouse on Mars' Varcharz may have been better off jettisoning its halfhearted pop aspirations, foregoing beats in favor of pure texture.  \"Cephalopod\", \"Peek\", \"Harpoon Point\", and \"Stratografic\" are prickly, offkilter tunes with chords and melodies, regular beats, and vague hints of dub; all impress with their inventive approach. Though these are electronic instrumentals in some way connected to pop history, they're not easily pegged to any one era and seem in no way retro. They are in that sense an honest go at creating a warped and challenging future music, fulfilling some of the promise of an original spirit of IDM.  And yet, listening to these bouncy numbers, I'm reminded of Lithops' \"Me We\". This track was St. Werner's contribution to the 1999 label sampler Comp., Sonig's first CD release after a number of vinyl issues. \"Me We\" is short, weird, terribly catchy, and hilarious, a unique pop instrumental that comes over as a cheap rewrite of an 80s cop movie theme updated with late90s computing power. St. Werner's projects tended toward the whimsical and humorous then; they were unassuming and approachable even when they seemed they could turn in any direction next. St. Werner's current aesthetic has traveled some distance from those days, and though Mound Magnet certainly succeeds on its own terms, I can't help but pine for the old mischievousness. "}