{"label":" Wall of Sound","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9451/homepage_large.dea9486f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Mogwai","title":"Zidane: A 21st Century Portrait OST","text":"  The most exhausted adage of the postrock boom was that bands placed within that genre's elastic borders were \"making soundtracks for imaginary movies.\" It's a popular kneejerk response to instrumental music, the assumption that if the artist doesn't provide a verbal story themselves, they must be creating accompaniment to a visual narrative, a sentiment reinforced by the ubiquitous filmandslide visuals of the scene's live shows. But cliché or no, it was only a matter of time before this questionable logic was repeated often enough to become fact, and the big bad industry actively began to pursue postrock acts to score their films. The only surprise of this inevitable partnership is the recurrent subject matter of postrockscored movies: The criminally unindie wide world of sports. Consider the trend started by Explosions in the Sky with their ponderous music for the highschool football drama Friday Night Lights, which fit the trappings of a film that attempted to make the sport look every bit as grandiose as the participants and spectators felt it to be. Postrock's crescendo swells and somber atmospherics were surprisingly apt supplements to the slowmotion and deadly serious vocabulary of sports propagated by NFL Films' stylized highlights, helping transform athletic struggles into the substitute for war and violence sociologists keep telling us about. But still, football seemed to be an incongruous fit for an indie rock score, given the (admittedly stereotyped) assumption that not many Texan high school football players probably have Explosions in the Sky on their iPods. Soccer, on the other hand, has become the indie rock of sports in America, with a small, fiercely loyal crowd that aggregates in designated locations, a thriving internet community dealing in esoteric terminology, and a raging streak of Anglophilia. So, from an outsider's perspective, a postrock album about soccer doesn't seem so weird. Of course, Mogwai are Scottish, which means their perspective on soccer is more traditional, while tracks like \"Helps Both Ways\" from Come on Die Young and \"Hugh Dallas\" from Matador's Everything Is Nice compilation tipped the group's affinity for sport. Thus, on paper, they seem like the perfect outfit to score a documentary on the career of one of the most acclaimed and controversial of recent soccer superstars, Zinedine Zidane.  Without having seen the movie unsurprisingly, it hasn't yet made it Stateside I can't fully judge how well the 11 songs included here fit the film's subject matter, but certain predictions can be made. Certainly the film which follows a full match from Zidane's perspective, a film experiment that was also conducted in the 1970s with George Best as its subject is not in the Nike/MTV quickcut style, with the compositions of Mogwai so tortoisepaced that watching soccer at regular speed seems to outrun the album when played simultaneously. Besides the crawling tempo, the music is also uniformly grave and bleak, thick with lowend and stormcloud piano, feedbackdrone guitars, and sparse, brushed drumming. YouTube links seem to indicate that the film is entirely made up of Zidane closeups, suggesting that the music is meant to underscore the loneliness of the midfielder, playing a team sport but isolated on the pitch in front of millions of eyes.  That's all well and good in a theatre, but independent of its visuals, Mogwai's Zidane is a bit of a slog, exhibiting fewer dynamics than the band's usual work. Like a nilnil game, the record contains rewards for those willing and able to focus on the subtleties, but feels ultimately unsatisfying, producing endless buildup without any payoff even songs with enthusiastic titles like \"Wake Up and Go Berserk\" or \"I Do Have Weapons\" fail to ignite. Part of this circular effect is the repetition of melodies; three of the songs appear in two versions, and many of the songs ride a similar leadbass arrangement.  But soundtracks are generally less about variety and more about establishing mood, something that Zidane does very well. It can also be argued that, in the limited arena of musical translations of a singular person or character, that Mogwai's music captures the somber, conflicted essence of Zizou, a player whose long career of accomplishments was overshadowed by an unfortunate flare of temper in his final game, an Algerian who became a national hero for his home country's former occupier, a playmaker who maintained a stern gravity amidst occasionally weakkneed and histrionic opponents and teammates. The album's success along these lines may lie not in postrock's supposed adeptness in reinforcing the external drama of modern sports, but because its instrumental tumult perfectly reflects the internal conflict of the athlete himself.  "}