{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/956/homepage_large.a7888b3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Paul Cooper","artist":"Brothomstates","title":"Claro","text":" Warp Records is the obvious home for Lassi Nikko's latest guileless fusion of Autechre's algorithmic expositions and the Boards of Canada's ingenue nostalgia. Despite a deal with the Finnish label Exogenic, Nikko's previous album, KobnItchEy, was an MP3only release posted on his website Nikko thereby set his sights further abroad than merely his Finnish homeland. What irks, however, is that Lassi expanded his outlook only when it came to distribution. Claro, like its predecessor, is exactly what you'd imagine an Autechre/Boards of Canada collaboration to sound like, provided neither of them gave half a fuck. No surprises here, then. Just another diligently focused album that demands you pay attention to its careful approximations of other people's styles.Claro opens with a modicum of promise. \"In\" is an intriguing collection of calliope flutters that cluster around a hummable tune. However, the following track, \"Brothomstates Ipxen,\" simply sounds recovered from the Confield recycle bin. And it's decked out in triggered aerosol hihats that hiss to a close in a series of endofthepier Wurlitzer flurries! \"Kava\" serenely drifts through the subdued moments of Autechre's Tri Repetae accompanied by... yet another diverting calliope! And on \"25101999,\" Nikko returns to more mechanical Autechreisms, never appreciating Booth & Brown's unraveling narrative mathematics. \"\" is almost as empty as its title, a skipping brokenbeat pattern playing host to a frolic of tinkling toy instruments. Then comes \"Mdrmx,\" Nikko's adoring tribute to Music has a Right to Children, with its softly echoed, fragile melody wanders through a poppy field of percussion. Beginning in a gloomy tide of thick bass burps, \"TeNochRP\" soon embraces a labored imitation of contorted steel. Just to heighten his sincerest brand of flattery, Lassi adds a dose of hiphop swagger to the track in honor of Autechre's more bboy side project, Gescom. With a judicious remix, the lumbering \"Natin\" could be transformed into a formidable Freq Nasty nuschool electro cut. As it stands, the track is far too pleased with its crinkled sophistication to be the effective battle weapon it could be. Claro (thankfully) concludes with \"Viimo\" which, at the last opportunity, does nothing to pull originality from the jaws of accomplished predictability. As I've found with all too many recent IDM albums, Claro is utterly beholden to the twin fontes et origines of the style. And like too many others, Nikko proves himself a disciplined and occasionally astonishingly beautiful mimic, but a mimic nonetheless. This record does nothing to show the world what Lassi Nikko has to contribute, other than adding yet another light to the other bright but derivative lights that seek to eclipse each other in atmospheric intensity. Nikko's addition to this firmament, already radiant with banality, does nothing but blind me and force me to take a break from this whole genre temporarily. At the moment, I'm finding the murkier nodrama beats of Req's Sketchbook so much more illuminating than all of this dazzling but formulaic imitation. "}