{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9465/homepage_large.4009f26a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Ryan Dombal","artist":"Ensemble","title":"Ensemble","text":" Olivier Alary aka Ensemble: Case #1431 why Björk is the best friend an electronic producer can have. Back in 2000, Alary and singer Chanelle Kimber released their humble blip of a debut, Sketch Proposals, on Richard D. James's Rephlex imprint to minimal fanfare and scarce distribution. At some point, though, Björk heard it. And she liked it. So, after filing a few remixes for the singer, coproducing the best song on Medulla (\"Desired Constellation\"), and breaking ties with girlfriend/collaborator Kimber, this experimental wonk updated his résumé and sought out some bigger name voices to bolster his next project. The eponymous outcome features oddcouple Cat Power and Lou Barlow, a far denser noisefolk attack, and the inevitable heightened expectations. While the fullfledged pieces found on Ensemble are pristine, they can be too perfect. At his best, Alary marries vocalist with backdrop with eerie, shadowy sonics, but there are moments when he fine tunes everything to a fault and the orchestration, beeps, strums, and static become little more than saccharine gloss. Unsurprisingly, the album's leading talent, Chan Marshall, is responsible for its most striking song. \"Disown, Delete\" puts the singer's husky drawl upfront as Alary supports her meandering melodies with a deliberate crescendo of white noise, fluttering strings, and throbbing acoustic guitar. Its patience and austerity is easy and organic. And there's a disarming loveliness to its unfinished quality something like early Beth Orton stretched out over a Fennessz refrigerator hum. Brighter and fuller, \"Summerstorm\" is a Free Designstyle slice of 1960s pop featuring Brit chanteuse Mileece's airy vocals. The psychedelic track works in the same futurepast time warp as Caribou's Up In Flames, with freakout sax sidling up to smoothedout breakbeats. It's a breezy sevenminute epic that never wears its welcome. But the craftsmanship that adds beaming energy to \"Summerstorm\" can also result in generic niceties. Take the Barlow track, \"One Kind Two Minds\". As the indie straggler gives up plaintive lines about being \"frightened by the beauty,\" Alary again begins to painstakingly build the track around him. But once his corroded distortions edges in, the song is already on its way to Duncan Sheik territory. And the producer's clean guitar + sumptuous strings formula gets tired by the time \"Loose\" rolls around, a hookless, 10minute bore sung by Alary and Camille Claverie. Ensemble's extended song lengths alternately allow pieces to move forward carefully and stagnate. And with so many lulls already built into each song, filler tracks featuring newage alarm clock found sounds licking waves, strong winds are frustratingly indulgent.  While this record marks vast development from the tiny music found on Sketch Proposals, some of Alary's past humility is missed amidst these grand soundscapes. Both of his career peaks thus far (\"Disown, Delete\" and \"Desired Constellation\") have the studio whiz backing away from his schmaltzy, overdone tendencies and working hard to provide Marshall and Björk with subtler trimmings that greatly magnify their natural gifts. If Alary can learn to love his role as star supporter, his atmospheric expertise should move into the lead.  "}