{"label":" Sony","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/13241/homepage_large.cd31dc69.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"The Clash","title":"The Singles","text":"  This box set duplicates down to the smallest detail the singles the Clash released in the UK. It includes 19 CDs each packaged in its own sleeve, replicating the design of the original 7\" all the attendant Bsides, 12\" mixes, and promoonly cuts associated with each release. The CDs are even black with faux grooves and each has a little label at the center of the disc to make it look like a 45. These little things are adorable. There's also a fat booklet containing miniessays about each of the singles. The liner notes, most by musicians people like the Edge, Shane McGowan, Pete Townshend, and Bobby Gillespie explain just how much impact a single could have in those days. These fans talk about when the single was released, where they bought it, what it felt like to hold it in their hands, and how they spent the following however many months playing it incessantly. So the set, given its format and the slant of its liners, tries to give a taste of what it meant to be following the Clash when they were vital and when they made statements a song at a time. If you want this set, you either hope to relive that era of picking up the new Clash 45s at they hit the shops you were there or you want to imagine you did. The music is almost uniformly fantastic. The Clash have aged very well, and their appeal now is probably broader than ever. But they were always a bigtent kind of band. I was never an anglophile, and I was never even remotely a punk, but growing up I could still dig the Clash. They were always the most inclusive of punk bands, respected by the hardcore scenesters but equally by the dabblers who saw them as one band among many. They achieved such democratic appeal in part because of the Beatleslike songwriting tension between the late Joe Strummer and Mick Jones, and in part because they never stayed any one place for long. Strummer was the heart and soul of the band, but Jones tempered Strummer's bellow, softening and broadening the band's sound and appeal. Throw in strong musicianship all the way around, lyrics that never took the easy path to getting their point across, and an insatiable curiosity and you get a band that deserves to be called among the best of the rock era.  The growth the Clash show across these 19 singles is stunning, from the roughbuttuneful punk of \"White Riot\", \"1977\", and \"Clash City Rockers\" through the unbelievably catchy \"White Man (In Hammersmith Palais)\", which set forever the template for punk bands dabbling in reggae, and on through dub, downtown disco, and hiphop. If a form of pop music was cool at some point during the late 70s and early 80s, the Clash tried it. The superextended single \"The Magnificent Seven\"  eight tracks long on CD here is like a great mini album on its own, with various dance mixes of the title track, along with a few dubs of the reggae tune \"One More Time\". That such a politically oriented band that began with such an abrasive punk rock sound could eventually signoff on the dainty bongoled funk of these \"Magnificent Seven\" remixes is inspiring.  And yet, despite how fantastic the music is and how ace the presentation is all the way around, there's something a little odd about this set. To package these items in 19 discs, in 19 sleeves, in two layers of a box, seems a bit strange when you're talking about a band like the Clash, a practical outfit always concerned with economy. They released a double album and then a triple in the early 80s, but they made sure their record company charged singlealbum prices for each. This thing is retailing for upwards of $75. Not to mention the format of two, three, four songs pre disc. Who wants to have to put on three or four CDs to hear a half hour of music? So Singles, obviously, is a specialists' item.  The Clash have been repackaged every which way even while they were still an active unit so the presence of all this music in one place isn't in itself a revelation. But The Singles is an enjoyable celebration of a bygone era when one 7\" piece of plastic could sit at the center of a world. I'm the oldest Pitchfork writer, and this era even predates me. Still, reading the testimonials, seeing the sleeves, and hearing the music, it all seems like a crazy amount of fun. But you'll need some scratch to get this set and see how it all went down.  "}