{"label":" Monitor","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9477/homepage_large.86bc219f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Indian Jewelry","title":"Invasive Exotics","text":"  In the avant/noise/rock underground, endless shapeshifting has long since become the norm. Witness the sly name changes of (D) Yellow Swans, the constant mutations of the Jewelled Antler Collective, the fluid personnel lineups of bands like Sunburned Hand of the Man, and the rampant intramural collaborations happening virtually anywhere you care to look. Amid this swarm of loose identities the Houstonbased outfit Indian Jewelry have been known to take things a step further, actively adding and subtracting musicians in various cities as they tour. This freeform approach puts a premium on communal expression and seatofpants invention, but often does so at the expense of any sort of cohesive authorial vision. It's a methodology that makes for a pleasant if somewhat bewildering spin on the group's latest fulllength Invasive Exotics. Houston has produced and nurtured its fair share of musical outsiders, and Indian Jewelry here pay brief oblique homage to their fertile local history with \"Partying With Jandek\", a title which, one assumes, to be likely a case of wishful thinking. Unlike Jandek or other such iconoclastic Houston natives as the Red Krayola or Charalambides, however, Indian Jewelry's music is seldom organized around any one particular individual voice. For Invasive Exotics, the group is built upon the core trio of Tex Kerschen, Erika Thrasher, and Rodney Rodriguez, although too much is typically happening at any given moment to assign clear roles or fully complete an accurate scorecard. As such the group's philosophy is perhaps best exemplified by their oftrepeated collectivist motto \"We Are Legion\". And though their music's resulting lackofcenter can frequently cause the album to unspool with jarring contrasts and false leads, it does allow Indian Jewelry to capture the occasional moment of perfect, accidental symmetry likely to be unattainable by solo explorers.  Few of Indian Jewelry's loftier ambitions are immediately visible on album opener \"Lesser Snakes\", a pulverizing slab of garagerock that's anarchic enough to recall vintage Cheater Slicks. Here, as on the primal thud of \"Powwow\", there's a psychedelic glint to the group's distorted vocals and scrambled guitars that seems to draw its Texan lineage directly from the Butthole Surfers' Locust Abortion Technician or Hairway to Steven. That's some heady company, to be sure, but apparently this crew have decided not keep it for long. Instead, they soon abandon all interest in unruly psychpunk forward motion and abruptly segue into the unlit, smoggy pulse of \"Dirty Hands\" and the opiated siren call \"Come Closer\", whose menacing electronic drones and submerged rhythms curl and billow like stray clouds of squid ink across the seafloor.  Enticing though these tracks can be, the group don't really hit their stride until their 10minute midalbum epic \"Going South\" a piece which is about as close as Invasive Exotics ever comes to establishing a signature sound. Over a derelict house beat the musicians achieve a nearly ideal balance of murky synth blats, disembodied guitar figures, and obscurantist vocal gibberish worthy of such contemporaries as Excepter or Black Dice. Predictably enough, once the song ends Indian Jewelry are promptly on to their next conquest, touching on the chirpy postpunk of \"Health and WellBeing\", the fractured electronica of \"Lying on the Floor\", and the blurred Krautrock repetitions of \"Lost My Sight\" before retiring for the night. To the band's credit, each of these many detours is enjoyable enough to make their fellow travelers unlikely to want to quit the road altogether. At some point, however, one has to hope that Indian Jewelry eventually find the direction to move their Invasive Exotics into a more suitable permanent habitat.     "}