{"label":" Eremite","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/959/homepage_large.78152867.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Alexander Lloyd Linhardt","artist":"Peter Brötzmann / William Parker / Hamid Drake","title":"Never Too Late But Always Too Early","text":" Of all the exemplary rituals Europe has senselessly invented, one is too often forgotten: the great predilection for ruining upstanding elements of American culture. For many, the great icon of this quasiimperialist dominion over the United States' vast cultural reserves is Peter Brötzmann. Ah, yes: we see lil' Peter in Remscheid, Germany, wicker hat over his brow, a little red wagon precociously tugging at his hand and his heart. The radio switches on: Coltrane, Sonny Rollins, Dexter Gordon. Brötzmann meets jazz.As theories have it, after a few seconds, either the radio lost all reception at the most clangorous volume imaginable or Brötzmann suffered a severe injury to his nervous system. No one can say. However, in hindsight, it is irrevocably clear that when Brötzmann thought he was still partaking in classic jazz, he was now actually listening to ten fiftyfoot chainsaws attached to flaming rotor blades in the middle of a railroad destruction derby. And thus was born European free jazz.Through the 60s and 70s, Brötzmann and a legion of similarly minded outcasts, clad in the skin ripped from Ayler's cadaver, rode into everexpanding rings of demonic noise. Now a paterfamilias for the free jazz vanguard, the sixtyyearold portrayed on this concert album recorded in Montreal on April 10th, 2001 is even more iconoclastic, griseous, and steellunged. The trio (threefourths of the Die Like a Dog Quartet) dedicated the album to Peter Kowald, who passed away a few months after this concert. Coincidence?This is a pernicious, pummeling disarray, like all of Brötzmann's albums, and he still makes time for some significant innovations. For a woodwind who began his era of infamy with a music that had no precedents, this particular lineup cavalierly aligns Brötzmann with a rich American tradition of frenetic and dense hard bop (courtesy of Parker and Drake), although that doesn't nearly classify this style of playing concrete bop, perhaps, or blackholesingularity bop. The instruments are still gloriously combusting all over this show, but there's a more melancholy lyricism affixed to them. This is the first Brötzmann album hell, first European improv album that got stuck in my head hours after it had ended.From the first ten seconds of the first fourpart opus, \"Never Run But Go\", it's evident that this ain't your father's avantgarde. Brötzmann's shriek of a wraith of a blow bifurcates his clarinet LIKE THE SERPENT'S TONGUE IN EDEN. Parker starts walking up and down, occasionally allowing some tones to break asunder and reinvigorate the clarinetist. Drake is playing the most fervent fills ever conceived, with rolls occurring about every ten seconds. The 45minute piece is probably one of the most accessible avantgarde jazz moments of the last few years. This is some mad, foaming audacity, but it does have a rhythm (one not recommended for small children or pregnant women).On \"The Heart and the Bones\", an initially catastrophic lunacy suddenly goes from Parker sawing his bass in half with the bow into a meditative and elegiac line that sounds like a vacation in Polynesia, except instead of birds in the trees, there are ampedup coffee machines. It's perversely soothing, although I still can't decide if Parker's riff is closer to Reich's Music for 18 Musicians or the Crash Bandicoot soundtrack. Either way, the respite is greatly appreciated. (And I use \"respite\" cautiously here; Brötzmann is still playing at frequencies that make dogs shatter.) The second disc, while nearly as essential, is a more traditional Brötzmann: less fills, less funk, and more carnage. The titular piece starts with some light brushing and leads into a more \"intimate\" version of his great band works of the 70s. The final track, \"Halfhearted Beast\", is unlike anything I've ever heard in free jazz, a blues bounce that seems to intentionally regiment Brötzmann's sax, and I still don't know whether to take it seriously or not.Brötzmann's style is one of those wondrous achievements that we hope employs digital effects, if only so we can sleep soundly at night knowing no one has that much organic power. He typically pulverizes the horn, blowing straight through it and consciousness. Thus, any twodisc set of his work is a little like going to the Santa Cruz Mystery Spot twice in two hours. Pack your bags. "}