{"label":" Editions Mego","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9498/homepage_large.8988be6d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"KTL","title":"KTL","text":"  KTL are Sunn0))) guitarist Stephen O'Malley and electronic noisenik/Mego label boss Peter \"Pita\" Rehberg, and the duo's moniker is an abbreviation of Kindertotenlieder, a theatrical collaboration between French performance artist Gisele Vienne and American novelist Dennis Cooper. O'Malley and Rehberg were asked to score the piece, whose title (which translates as \"Songs on the Death of Children\") has a long artistic history. It first emerged as a 425poem opus written by German poet Freidrich Rückert in 1834 after two of his children died within a few weeks. Later, at the turn of the century, five of those poems were set to an orchestral song cycle by Gustav Mahler. It's unclear how Vienne and Cooper's performance (set to debut in March of 2007) relates to these works, or whether the music on this album will be involved at all according to Mego, this is not the final soundtrack, but rather \"a separate project\" but if any of KTL's music is used, Kindertotenlieder should be one dark, scary piece of theater. These six tracks lean heavily toward the O'Malley side of KTL's aural spectrum, filled with blackened drones, quaking low end, and elongated submetal riffs. Rehberg's contribution is by no means negligible, but he bends his electronic washes and distorted noise to fit O'Malley's unwavering dirges. Fans of each artist will find a lot to drown in here, but KTL is more likely to strike an eternal chord with the Sunn0))) and Southern Lord crowds than with followers of Pita and his Mego cohorts. Regardless of preference, any listener will be tested by KTL's opening cut, a 25minute marathon of barren ambience aptly titled \"Estranged\". Over a distant rumble, the duo adds a few hesitant sounds: slow guitar chords, small slices of noise, and not much else. Those accents, however, are so sparse that it feels as if both men could have left the room during portions of their recording. The track's modicum of hypnotic chill could benefit from theatric visuals, but on record, \"Estranged\" would have worked better as an epilogue (and kind of does, as the shorter albumclosing reprise \"Snow\"). Despite that slow beginning, the guts of KTL four tracks all titled \"Forest Floor\" are worth waiting for. Here, O'Malley and Rehberg's individual approaches mesh into a third distinct sound. The overlap between the former's glacial doom and the latter's busy noise gradually increases as each track thickens and expands. \"Forest Floor 1\" collects harrowing screeches like horrorfilm sound effects isolated into abstraction. On \"Forest Floor 2\", Rehberg doles out cutting jolts that sound like a laptop take on a Wolf Eyes fistpumper, while \"Forest Floor 3\" strikes a spoton median between two artistic forces, as O'Malley's massive tones are lapped by the crackling flames of Rehberg's abrasions.  The \"Forest Floor\" suite makes KTL a success, qualified only by \"Estranged\", and by the hope that the duo continues to work together on future projects. The theatrical work that KTL formed to score certainly seems intriguing, but even more enticing is the possibility that O'Malley and Rehberg might improve upon this fertile first meeting. "}