{"label":" Park the Van","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9500/homepage_large.4d81b7ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Fast Food Nation OST","text":"  Multiartist soundtrack discs often sound disjointed, uncomfortably arranging disparate tracks to milk a few more bucks from a boxoffice sensation. This one, though, is remarkable for its unity, bringing together a handful of unrelated artists to form a bigger picture in much the same way that Eric Schlosser's widelyread exposé of the fast food industry stitched together anecdotes with hard data. Of course, it's a soundtrack to the fictional movie, not the factual book, but the film does basically the same thing as the book, just in a dramatic setting. The primary fabric of the disc is the desert melancholia of Friends of Dean Martinez. Their moody, desolate twang is so wellsuited to soundtrack work that it's surprising it's taken so long for a major filmmaker to employ them in such a capacity. As a longtime fan, I can only hope this kind of exposure garners the band more attention than their string of excellent albums. Their work on this disc is a little more ambient than usual, as one might expect, but \"Somewhere Over the Waves\" and the rerecording of their old chestnut \"A Place in the Sun\" remain consumingly chilly pieces that nonetheless manage to breathe like living creatures. The disc kicks off with something of a fakeout: \"Mickey's Big One\" is an uncharacteristically strident track for the band, a blob of goopy funk about as greasy as the slop that gets passed through drivethru windows. But elsewhere, the songs showcase the Friends' usual Latin tinge, and much of the other artists' material shares that Southwestern quality. Nortec Collective's \"Don Loope\" is the most obvious, and one of the best, with its big beat and mangled mariachi horns attacked by screaming Cuban jazz trumpet. It jumps through several entertaining movements packed with borderland signifiers, shifting rhythms, and wobbly melodies.  Park the Van Records has indulged a bit by putting two of its own artists on the tracklist, but Dr. Dog and the Capitol Years both turn in excellent songs. Dr. Dog's \"Worst Trip\" is great horn and harmonyladen indie rock with a sticky chorus, while their labelmates turn down the volume on \"Seven Songs\", a sparse acoustic folk track with lush vocal harmonies. Secretary Bird, a band helmed by longtime Friend of Dean Martinez Mike Semple, contribute \"Tio\", a great, twangy song with a huge guitar hook and a big chorus that reminds me a bit of Grant Lee Buffalo.  Among the hits are a few minor misses chiefly the closer, Monsieur Leroc's bizarre \"Me So Hungry\", a jarring track in this context that's kind of hiphop, but with essentially inept rapping. And Spoon's \"Was It You\" never was Gimme Fiction's most engaging moment, which holds true here as well. I'd rather have heard a middling new track from them than a middling old one, at any rate.  Overall, the disc is fairly worthwhile, particularly for Friends of Dean Martinez fans the lack of visual context doesn't really hurt their seven tracks here. The artwork is naturally full of film stills, all cut up and arranged into the shape of the lower 48 in the center spread, along with obligatory closeups of eerily glistening burgers and fries. The music here ultimately mirrors the film's setting in the bigsky country just east of the Rockies more than it does the fattening subject of its critique, but that's just as well the alternative might have been lecturing social commentary.  "}