{"label":" City Slang","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9506/homepage_large.3db3ae46.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Schneider TM","title":"Skoda Mluvit","text":"  Dirk Dresselhaus, the former indierock drummer behind Schneider TM, is constantly toeing the line between genius and alsoran. While a lot of his peers in this corner of the electronicpop world settle for playing acoustic guitar and singing sheepishly over tired drummachine programming, Dresselhaus has created a totally original and totally captivating way of making music; laptop processing meshes seamlessly with mallet instruments, synth texture meshes seamlessly with voice, and the result is always instantly identifiable as his. When he's on his game, as he was through the brilliant first half of 2002's Zoomer, his tracks are a steamy, bubbly bath of sound: buzzing keyboards, whooshes and swirls, backwards blips and clicks, spangles of guitars and strings. Over all of which Dresselhaus lazily harmonizes, in a voice that's 20% blueeyed soul, 20% Sam Prekop, and 60% stoned surfer in other words, something like a German Beck. And yet he still manages to spend a good chunk of every album sounding like a secondstringer. When he's not entirely on his game, he still sounds brilliant, but he still sounds baked: The latter half of Zoomer felt like one of those times when stoned musicians go down the rabbit hole, totally enthralled by the grooves they're making, while the audience starts checking its collective watch. In that regard, Skoda Mluvit, which slipped out this year without much fanfare or publicity, feels even messier than Schneider TM's last LP: It sounds like Dresselhaus has spent the past few years holed up alone in his Berlin studio, surrounded by a huge pile of hand drums and xylophones, digging deeper and deeper into his own head. And on some tracks, that means pushing his productions to whole new levels of genius. \"Cataractact\" and \"Pac Man/ Shopping Cart\" reprise the sunny, propulsive hums of Zoomer, and beautifully: The former threads acoustic guitar through a perfect tangle of whooshing drums and wandering synths, while the latter pushes elegant string samples into a woozy blur. On \"Peanut\" and especially \"Caplets\", Dresselhaus brings the guitar to the forefront for a kind of graceful studio blues as played on acoustic instruments, but so transformed by his recording that it becomes otherworldly. Elsewhere, of course, Dresselhaus' technical ideas start to outshine his musical ones, and the record drifts off into any number of odd culdesacs: a fourminute motorik intro on \"More Time\", six minutes of hazy, underwater stasis on \"The Slide\", and more of Schneider TM's intriguingly odd version of \"rap\" on \"The Blacksmith\". It doesn't help that his lyrics remain as stonerish as his singing voice, and not always in the cute way: Addressing what must be American neocons on \"Vodou\", he asks, \"Who do they think they are, and what has Jesus got to do with shit?\"  And there's something in that vibe that does him in. Taken alone, even the worst tracks here are musically fascinating and technically enthralling Dresselhaus is spending way too much time programming each one to just be jacking around. And yet something about the distance between the shiny pop of \"Cataractact\" and the scattered jumble of fresh ideas elsewhere tends to make you think that he is or else that, for once, we're dealing with a guy with too many odd ideas to follow them all up without embarrassing himself. (If \"The Blacksmith\" sounds dopey to you, it might be because what Dresselhaus is trying to pull off in it is subtly and secretly incredibly ambitious: gamelan IDM soulrap? With a violin break?) Dresselhaus doesn't seem like the kind of guy who'll ever offer us an album that's entirely focused, coherent, or even a good idea the whole way through, but he's still got the kind of talent that deserves attention; just cut him a little slack when he gets a little stoned on you, okay? I'd still rather hear his weirder ideas than most people's predictable ones.  "}