{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9507/homepage_large.6ead203d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Giddy Motors","title":"Do Easy","text":" Despite the ease the internet lends to finding and consuming new music, great bands can still be overlooked. Our musical tastes are getting more disparate and fragmented as it gets easier to satisfy our musical itches, and we tend to champ bands like, say, Mastodon, who are happy to stand for every enduring trait and endearing excess of their genre (and that's no slight, it's precisely why that band rules), rather than inhale an accompanying subculture whole hog and find the interesting acts that may be hidden in corners. Giddy Motors are definitely a hiddencorner band a dark, filthy, vermininfested, stuffedwithscrapsofnesting hidden corner. Maybe we can blame the four years its been since their last album for their dwindling profile. Their debut, Make It Pop, was a gloriously unpredictable record, combining the gleeful grinding you'd likely find either on the Touch and Go label's roster or recorded by Steve Albini (if not both), with improvisational breaks that had some people shouting free jazz. With their new album, however, they've streamlined those tendencies and begun dredging up the shavedheadandshortpants riffing of early 1990s acts like Helmet. If it sounds like an absurd or unwieldy combination, don't be fooled, as Do Easy is even more accessible than the band's debut; it's still bleak and ugly, but nowhere near as surprising as its predecessor. Before they sounded fearless; now they sound like guys you should be afraid of. But focusing never hurt anyone, and honing their lumbering rhythms into a finer point brings a sleeker, almost industrial sound to the band. There's an airy sample hidden underneath the railroadchug consistency of the rhythm in \"Sick\", if you strain to hear under the vicious funk of the guitars and disturbed caterwauling. It's apparent that there's plenty of room for virtuosity, melody, and catharsis at the Giddy Motors' table, but where they'd once break to show off their prowess or unpredictability, they only stop to make the song more sick. \"Kapow\" is more relentless pinpoint hammering with manic, onomatopoeic howling from singer Gaverick de Vis and a slippery lockdown groove in the bridge, but \"Panzarama\" is the disc's dynamic highlight, flying on headbobbing bass and slicing staccato guitar notes. It showcases De Vis' highly strange delivery, overenunciating like a bad Dylan impersonator, twisting and rolling his syllables in the recesses of his mouth when not howling the vowels from the back of his throat.  \"Early Morning Pipe\" flashes a simpler, sassier fuzzbass riff with de Vis growling along with the abrupt spurts of guitar, which might have you missing Mclusky for a moment. \"Nego\" uses the same undulating bass and hairraising guitar, but rolling a little more recklessly and consistently harsh. \"Down With a High Heel\" is a midtempo gurgle that manages to surprise, as the guitar grinding unpredictably hits from all sides like a hostile interrogation. Giddy Motors finally stretch their legs and their chops on the instrumental \"End Game\", led by a stark, impressionistic bass drone with a few distant dive bombs of guitar, mostly threatening without delivering on the violence. It's a fine moment to catch a smoke right before the aural punishment of \"Dot Dot Dot\", a mostly silent soundscape that intermittently drops screaming sheets of white noise into the mix.  Just one song on Make It Pop might have covered all this ground, but Do Easy is very deliberately plotted and paced. At just over half an hour, it's terrifyingly concise, slowly churning through brawny posthardcore pigfuck before easing in to backturned fuckoff insanity, making the transition slow and steady and saying all they really need to say. The same jazzinfluenced diversions are there, but folded imperceptibly into an otherwise accessible grind you won't remember the ringing arpeggios of \"Panzarama\" because they're the grease puddle that slides into the disc's most memorable chorus. (That's \"DISEASE!\" Can't miss it.) A statement that concise is the mark of a band with plenty to show but nothing to prove, and it's remarkable that something so tightly focused can remind us how broad the horizon of underground should be.  "}