{"label":" Koch","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/962/homepage_large.f7e4a9fe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Ian Brown","title":"Solarized","text":" The Stone Roses were a supernova, their debut album a bright flash in the pop universe that remains a signpost and a favorite more than 15 years later. Ever since 1989, though, we've been treated to the gradually fading glow from that initial burst Second Coming was a dim reflection of their former glory that took too long to make. We won't bother talking about former Roses guitarist John Squire's Seahorses project and subsequent failure to do much of anything, but I remember when I heard Ian Brown's first solo effort, 1998's Unfinished Monkey Business. It was such a crappy record that I gave up on him completely, admitting to myself that one fantastic album and a bunch of pale shadows was all I'd ever get from this crew (Mani's contributions to Primal Scream notwithstanding). I shouldn't have been completely dismissive to Brown: The two albums he's released since Unfinished haven't been great, but they've at least had flashes of something interesting and even a few genuinely killer songs mixed in amongst the puzzling experiments. Solarized, his fourth under his own steam, is his most focused, consistent solo album yet. There's nothing terribly new to the electropsych sound he's worked up for himself it actually throws back quite a bit to the Roses but here he has a clutch of great melodies for him to hang his honeydipped voice on, and he delivers those nicely. It frequently helps to ignore the lyrics, mostly worn postBritpop platitudes like \"Let the stars shine on/ 'Til the break of dawn,\" from opener \"Longsight M13\". He gets angry and topical on \"Kiss Ya Lips (No ID)\", decrying national ID cards and singing with gritty emotion instead of his trademark arrogant disaffection, but he addresses his complaints to \"Mr. Politician\" and other vague entities of authority, which doesn't help his cause. Thankfully, \"Kiss Ya Lips\" has a sweet, spiky groove, a monster bassline, and a simple, direct beat that makes it one of the album's best tracks. The strength of the record is songs such as that effortlessly melodic and insanely catchy, they don't care what year it is or that triphop is deader than dead, and they're better for it. \"One Way Ticket to Paradise\" is a heavy guitar beatfest that nods to bhangra by way of Led Zeppelin's \"Kashmir\" and it's best if you pay no mind to how all the parts fit together and just nod your head to the deliberate tempo. So does this restore my faith in Brown or make me mourn the members of the Stone Roses' sophomore (and junior, and senior) slumps any less? Well, no, though I'm happy that he finally gave us something that's better than merely listenable and that his solo career is improving, one small step at a time. "}