{"label":" Elektra / Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9519/homepage_large.dd2207b2.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"The Doors","title":"Perception","text":" The Doors aren't so much a band as a phase you go through, rarely to be visited again, like so much of the highschoolnotebook poetry that Jim Morrison's lyrics inspired. Though their songs could be as transgressive as the Velvet Underground's, the Doors are denied the same namedrop cachet, their legend reduced to a punchline no thanks to a 1991 Oliver Stone biopic more selfindulgent than the band itself, and recent efforts by Ray Manzarek and Robby Krieger to revive the band with Ian Astbury as the Doors of the 21st century, like some realityTVshow experiment minus the TVshow part. Amid these sorry attempts to update the Doors' legacy, it's easy to forget that without Morrison's brooding baritone, there'd be no Iggy, no Ian Curtis, and it's safe to say that Morrison taught Bono more about rocking a Jesus Christ pose than JC himself. So Perception's extensive repackaging of the Doors' six albums (each complemented by a bonus disc of DVD footage and Surround Sound mixes) arrives at a fortuitous time not because it coincides with the band's 40th anniversary, but because it helps contemporize a band tethered to a 1960s hippie ideal to which, spiritually, it often stood in opposition. For all the mythology surrounding the band, the Doors like so many 60s garagerockers arguably peaked with their first single. \"Break on Through (To the Other Side)\" is a taunt and a dare, drawing the line between who was down and who was out. But the 1967 debut album that the song introduced wasn't your typical Nuggetsvariety noise, looking to the Weill/Brecht songbook for \"Alabama Song (Whisky Bar)\" and beyond pop structure entirely for \"The End\". The 11minute closer set the standard for the Doors' long songs: Morrison dropping streamofconsciousness prose in the place where most bands would put the guitar solo, his words gradually wearing down the players' accompaniment before summoning them back for the climax. \"The End\" is also the song that helped define the Morrison caricature as pabulumspouting narcissist, but the song's ominous drift guided by Krieger's sinister riff and disrupted by Morrison's Oedipal intimations remains eerily compelling, and established the sex/death dichotomy that would play out in so many Doors songs. (Also: the song is actually shorter than you remembered: The Doors was originally mastered at a slightly slower speed, due to technical error that's been corrected by Perception's new version so you'll get a few seconds of your life back.) Strange Days (1967) closely adheres to the debut's winning formula: short songs about love and one long song about apocalypse (\"When the Music's Over\"). But 1968's Waiting for the Sun shows the first signs of fatigue, opening with the weakest of the Doors' hit singles (the Kinksnicked \"Hello, I Love You\"), and weighed down by start/stop multisectional threeminute songs (\"Spanish Caravan\", \"The Unknown Solider\") that feel more meandering than the band's longest pieces. But it could've been worse: Among Perception's featured outtakes is the 17minute freeform tone poem \"The Celebration of the Lizard\", amusing as an antipop gesture from a top 40 act, but so portentous that, even at the height of their chemical ingestion, the band still thought it better to edit down its most coherent passage into the pulsating acidrock throbber \"Not to Touch the Earth\".  History has relegated 1969's The Soft Parade to the same Spectacular Failure file as the Stones' Their Satanic Majesties Request; the problem, however, isn't the opulent TV talkshow orchestra arrangements (which lend \"Touch Me\" a schmaltzy charm) but the bloodless, Fat Elvis performances. A DVD performance clip of the titletrack suite makes for a fitting summation of the Doors' halfhearted dalliance with symphonic psychedelia and their subsequent abandonment of it: John Densmore and Krieger look bored and embarrassed performing the song's poncey opening passages, before the gamesaving swampfunk finale allows a bloated, bearded Morrison to reconnect with his younger, more dynamic self.  Like so many of their peers, the Doors responded to the posthippie hangover with a backtobasics approach (read: the blues, man) that informed their last two albums, 1970's Morrison Hotel and 71's L.A. Woman though the significance of this move is overstated by Perception's inclusion of eight (mostly incomplete) consecutive session takes of \"Roadhouse Blues\" that merely chart the song's evolution from sloppy barband jam to somewhat less sloppy barband jam (though the betweensong banter is amusing). L.A. Woman is also marred by its share of blooze snoozes (\"Crawling King Snake\") but finds the band effectively shaping up for the hardrock 70s with the hypnogrooved title track and \"The Wasp (Texas Radio and the Big Beat)\", the most successful union of the band's bluesy tendencies and Morrison's beatpoet babble. But even if his death was still months away, on \"Riders on the Storm\" Morrison has already turned into a ghost, lending the song an eternally haunted quality that even the band's detractors can't deny.  When Morrison first urged his fans to break on through, he wasn't asking for their money, he was asking for a commitment. At $120 and 12 discs, Perception is asking for both, but the audiophile end of the fanbase will be pleased by the new masters (as well as engineer Bruce Botnick's gearheadoriented liner notes). In contrast to the multitracked splendor of much 60s psychedelic rock, the Doors made great use of space, a virtue highlighted by the new masters' foregrounding of the two most overlooked Doors: guitarist Krieger, whose fingerpicked leads so often took a backseat to Manzarek's organ arpeggios; and drummer Densmore, whose playing hits harder the lighter his touch.  The band's prolific album output means Perception offers little in the way of essential leftovers, but that's more of a relief than anything. The lasting perception of Perception: Had the Doors' six albums been condensed to three cherrypicking the best material from The Doors/Strange Days, Waiting for the Sun/The Soft Parade and Morrison Hotel/L.A. Woman the band would've had a discography as airtight as Jimi Hendrix's. Instead, each ensuing album drawn from increasingly depleted sources of inspired material and an increasingly intoxicated frontman put greater stress on the band's internal contradictions: A protopunk band with baroqueclassical aspirations, fronted by a Californiadreamy pop idol who really wanted to be a reclusive fat beardo poet in Paris a wouldbe idealist who made a more convincing nihilist.  The singer's decline is laid bare in Perception's DVD clips: While an entrancing 1967 Canadian television performance of \"The End\" (incest rant excised) focuses on the young Morrison's face to the point of denying the other band members' existence, a grainy 1970 Australian live taping of \"Crawling King Snake\" seems to be deliberately avoiding his burly figure. By placing these images alongside the erratic artistic trajectory that plays out on Perception's six discs, we see that Morrison was not just a victim of his own excess, but also an early victim of a burgeoning musicbusiness machine that demanded quantity over quality, regardless of the personal or creative toll.  "}