{"label":" Eclipse","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9524/homepage_large.e50a41cb.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Dusty Springfield","title":"Complete A and B Sides 1963-1970","text":"  When the Beatles kicked open the door to the U.S. market for British musicians in 1963, it didn't take long for a flood of others to stream in behind them. One of the first to capitalize was Dusty Springfield, whose 1963 smash \"I Only Want to Be with You\" introduced Americans to her uncommonly soulful voice in the guise of stringsoaked girlgroup pop with a major bounce in its step. You can still hear it pretty regularly on oldies radio. If she'd done nothing else, she'd be pleasantly remembered as a highlight of the UK beat girl phenomenon, but she was only warming up: In the decade that followed she established herself as one of Britain's best female singers, and possibly its best soul singer. Her instrument was truly a gift. She was an alto with a powerful, dexterous voice that sounded equally at home breezing through an upbeat pop hit or wrapping itself around a sultry slice of Memphis soul. Eclipse, a new label run by Saint Etienne's Bob Stanley, has done a great job of pulling together all of the A and B sides from the most fertile period of her career (excepting a Christmas single and a Bside sung by her brother Tom), and creatively sequencing them with the push sides arranged chronologically on disc one and their flips on disc two. You might think that'd make for a much weaker disc two, but that's not the case. These are her British singles, for one thing, and several of her U.S. Asides \"The Look of Love\", for instance were sent to side two. For another, she was a perfectionist who never slacked in her delivery, and she could do wonderful things with almost any material, so the Bsides are uniformly as sharp as their counterparts. The UK singles tracklist might leave a few American listeners scratching their heads, as two of her biggest U.S. hits, \"Wishing and Hoping\" and \"All Cried Out\", weren't singles in the UK. But they're not really missed when confronted with the strength of everything included here.  When Dusty cut \"I Only Want to Be with You\" she was fresh off leaving her family folk group the Springfields, inspired by the American girl groups she heard while touring the States. She cultivated an image with an eye toward those same American women, applying copious dark eye shadow and creating a series of striking blonde sculptures atop her head. In early 1960s Britain, this was the height of glamour and a uturn away from the staid ladies who had served in the pop vanguard to that point. Johnny Franz, who also worked with the Walker Brothers at their orchestral peak, dreamed up a world of sumptuous orchestration to complement her powerful voice.  \"Give Me Time\" answers her pleas in the chorus with sweeping strings and horns, with a full choir hanging in the wings, and the drums sound like they were recorded in a canyon. The massive hit \"You Don't Have to Say You Love Me\" has a sound as big as its chart success, but she holds back the crashing cymbals and lumbering orchestra with her voice she's absolutely soaring on that chorus, and yet sounds relaxed, as though she might actually be holding back a bit. Dusty perfected performing on this huge canvass, but by the late 60s, the commercial returns were diminishing in spite of the fact that she was recording some of her best material in widescreen ballads like 1968's \"I Close My Eyes and Count to Ten\", a song whose bombast leads to dark corners dripping with Rhodes piano.  To jumpstart her career, she came back to the home of her original beat girl spark, the U.S., recording the epochal album Dusty in Memphis with Stax session players. The album didn't sell in huge numbers, but it did spawn \"Son of a Preacher Man\", one of the decade's best soul singles and one of Dusty's most enduring recordings. Her next stop was Philadelphia for sessions with Gamble & Huff. A Brand New Me was nearly as good as its predecessor, and the title track is one of the strongest Asides here. Her sway over the charts was seriously fading by the time the final single on this set, a cover of the Young Rascals' \"How Can I Be Sure?\", hit the racks; but that doesn't stop it from being a brilliantly melodramatic waltz, its swaying chord progression outlined by a rich accordion part and a huge bass line.  Its Bside, her take on Classics IV's \"Spooky\", has such an effortless cool that got it placed on the soundtrack to Guy Ritchie's Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels soundtrack just a few years ago. It's just one of the Asideworthy treats on disc two. \"Summer Is Over\" is another waltz, arranged by Ivor Raymonde to slowly surround Springfield's vocal with everheavier orchestration as her voice moves from a breathy nearwhisper to a gripping delivery from deep within her chest. If it had been an obscure American single rather than a Dusty Bside, the Goffin/King cover \"I'll Love You for a While\" could have been big on the Northern Soul scene. And then, of course, there's \"The Look of Love\", with Dusty at her sensual best.  The trackby track could get out of control quickly if you hit all the highlights \"I'm Gonna Leave You\" is so good it's hard to believe it was stuffed on the flip of \"Goin' Back\" but let's just say that this is essential listening for fans of all kinds of things, from sweet soul to UK beat to girl groups. Dusty would record on and off until her death from breast cancer in 1999, but she never again reached the heights she occupied in the 60s. It doesn't matter. The recordings she made then have the kind of quality that makes them timeless, and this compilation flawlessly captures her best days.  "}