{"label":" Warner Bros.","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9526/homepage_large.f216259f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Music from The O.C. Mix 6: Covering Our Tracks","text":"  Though it was one of the biggest music stories of 2006, here at the end of the calendar there's really nothing left to be said about the commercialization of indie. We're all tapped out of our righteous indignation, our disgruntled cynicism, our territorial defense mechanisms. And just in time, too, since it seems like all the obvious symbols of indie's mainstreaming process are already beginning to fade: \"The O.C.\" is experiencing plummeting ratings, Zach Braff vehicle The Last Kiss was in theaters for about five hours, majorlabel efforts from the Rapture and the Trail of Dead have kicked up barely more dust than their indie back catalog. Really, it's not a surprise; after all, \"O.C.\"indie was just another fickle musicbiz dalliance, and such flavors tend to have a pretty short lifespan. The sixth installments of \"The O.C.\" mixtape series has all the markings of a trend in its death throes, as this latest species of coffeeshop indie starts to eat itself. It's a collection of 12 covers, performed by B and Clist artists, with the subject matter mostly reflecting the narrow band of the recent and distant indie/altrock canon. It's a sad, dreary collection, and not only because most of the groups bring a churchservice level of enthusiasm to the proceedings; its forced nostalgia feels false and pointless, remembering the heady days of two years ago when \"Float On\" was a top 40 mainstream smash. That's right, \"Float On\" is the lead track on this tributeact collection, as the nobodies of Goldspot imagine what the song might've sounded like had Modest Mouse completely cut loose the Isaac Brock barking and jagged edges of their old sound. The result, of course, is thoroughly neutered, transforming Brock's desperatesounding optimism into a schoolassembly motivational speech. As far as stillwarm alternative chart hits go, \"California\" obviously has more of a right to inclusion, but Mates of State sound as if their performance of the theme song was conscripted, displaying none of the clashing harmonies and organfuzz enthusiasm of their own music.  The same rearrangement formula is repeated throughout the record, with most artists content to merely strip down the original, sing it a little prettier, and try to make it fit some sunset beachfront heartbreak montage scene. This childproofing effect is most egregious when applied to material that was once raucous (like Rogue Wave's nearly unrecognizable debasement of \"Debaser\") or interesting for its excess (like the Coldplayed hack job John Paul White does on ELO's wonderfully lush \"Can't Get It Out of My Head\").  A particularly astonishing misreading occurs with Pinback's slackpop take on Black Flag's \"Wasted\", which naively plays the sarcastic lyrics straight, turning the mockery of the original (not to mention Camper Van Beethoven's hilarious version) into an ignorant stoner anthem. One moment that promises to change the sunsetlull mood of the compilation is Lady Sovereign's \"Pretty Vacant\", but even this arrangement is disappointingly conservative, with blunt rock instrumentation and a lyric that doesn't befit the intelligence and playfulness of the petite rapper.  As the compilation groans to a close, lesserknown source material rears its head, with songs from Super Furry Animals, Clinic, and the New Year all going under the knife. Here, the lack of imagination crosses the line from yawningly rote to nearly unethical reproduction: Syd Matters' karaoke take on SFA's \"Hello Sunshine\" does little more than replace the original's glossy harmonies with a Rufus Wainwright imitation, the M's bite the entire Castlevania backdrop of Clinic's \"Come Into Our Room\" for their own cover. Ostensibly the goal of such tributes is to draw people's attention to more obscure artists, but by changing nothing but the personnel, it's a thin line between celebrating your influences and pirating their sound.  Only two songs bother to make enough adjustments to be considered a lateral move, if not an improvement. Ann Arbor's Tally Hall manage to retain the Killers' anthemic properties of \"Smile Like You Mean It\" while swapping out the keyboards for bizarre choral harmonies and theremin peaks, and Band of Horses enlarge The New Year's \"The End's Not Near\" by basically turning it into a reverbsoaked Band of Horses song. But for the rest of the record, the uniform wateringdown process is nothing less than a perfect indictment of indie's brief time in the mainstream spotlight.  Television may have been the medium by which cult bands stormed the castle of pop culture, but it also doomed their efforts, as everyone consciously or otherwise sought to make music fit for promiscuous doctors and rich teenagers. In record time, all the unique trappings that made indie's ascension a compelling story were stripped away to better fit the round hole of marketing necessity, and the story became nothing but the same old song and dance.  "}