{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9527/homepage_large.a5a3bfa1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"London Sinfonietta","title":"Warp Works & Twentieth Century Masters","text":"  Less than 100 years ago, the Parisian police were famously called to the premiere of Igor Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring. Stravinsky's twopart ballet challenged the audience on nearly every level, and its emphasis on intentional dissonance and rhythmic unrest not to mention its admittedly pagan themes drove the crowd to disorder. Almost six decades later, Steve Reich's stateside premiere of \"Four Organs\" also caused chaos, and later, John Cage said of Glenn Branca's Indeterminate Activity of Resultant Masses: \"If it was something political, it would resemble fascism.\" Important works, especially in regard to classical iconoclasm, come with intense labor pains. But the ideas of The Rite of Spring as well as Reich's phase pieces and Cage's prepared piano pieces are now considered passé. Their lessons have been absorbed into and applied far beyond the realm of art music, from Brian Eno to Ciara. The idée fixe, then, of Warp Works & Twentieth Century Masters \"to explore the connection between electronic experimenters on the Warp label and their sonic grandfathers\" by physically playing pieces once performed by machines should be easy enough. The basic notion is a given, and the concept that Reich's modulation ideas and that Karlheinz Stockhausen's halfcenturyold compositions for ring modulators and synthesizers preceded work by current electronic idols is dogma. A dozen box sets, after all, have exhausted this topic.  But, on Warp Works, the London Sinfonietta reinvents work from Cage, Reich, Aphex Twin, and Squarepusher, first imagined for mixed media of man and machine, as pieces imaginatively played and performed by fleshandbone musicians. Pristine and convincing, these recordings, culled from three European performances by the Sinfonietta in 2003 and 2004, cast the original pieces in a fresh light. Reich's \"Six Marimbas\", played in realtime by six people, is immaculate, and the four movements of György Ligeti's Chamber Concerto are masterfully evocative, poling between whimsy, fright, apprehension and doom with rarified clarity. Pianist Clive Williamson lends consummate subtlety and precision to the prepared piano pieces of Cage and (to a lesser extent) Aphex Twin. An obvious lineage seems, somehow, worth revisiting.  But, for all of the Sinfonietta's dexterity, Warp Works' didactism is as incomplete as it is redundant, and that's what it suffers the most. The quest for extended instrumental techniques and the conquest of emerging technology for making music better (or simply different) are both older than recorded music, and the selection of pieces that illustrate ties between Stockhausen and Squarepusher seems entirely arbitrary, if not coincidental. There are better representations from both Aphex Twin and Squarepusher available, and that the only two electronic artists here once called Warp home craft a dubious, partial lesson. Perhaps it's a lesson that can push backcatalogue sells, but it offers very few authentic insights.  In fact, Squarepusher and Aphex Twin feel like the artists that do not belong. Following Conlon Nancarrow's \"Study no. 7\" by four tracks, the saturated sounds of Squarepusher's \"The Tide\" fall short of their historical precedents. In the liner notes, the pieces are linked because they both employed technology to perform music too complex for existing instrumental ensembles. Somewhat isolated in Mexico City, Nancarrow realized that finding players to handle his intricacies and concepts (ultimately, he composed rhythmic and tonal ratios based on the irrational numbers pi and e) would be impossible. Working on necessity, he scored his pieces onto massive player piano rolls. At their best, the results epitomized the possible reach of compositional imagination, actually realizing ideas only proposed by Henry Cowell. \"Study no. 7\" is easily the most complex and involving piece here, and even now, 94 years after his birth very few composers have rivaled Nancarrow's ingenuity and depth, Squarepusher included. If anything, Nancarrow's inclusion here proves that Tom Jenkinson and Richard James have work to do. Granted, I could simply be leaning too heavily on the explicit bridgethegap aspirations manifested in the liner notes. Perhaps Warp Works is simply meant as a celebration of 20th century composition and two Warp artists that have built on those legacies without eclipsing them. Then again, I'm not really into cover bands, even if their drum sounds on Kenneth Hesketh's collectionclosing arrangement of Aphex Twins' \"Polygon Window\" are breathtaking or, better yet, even if they call themselves Glass Cage, Stockhausen Syndrome, or London Sinfonietta. "}