{"label":" Altitude","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/96/homepage_large.fa9ece32.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Alaska!","title":"Rescue Through Tomahawk","text":" The reason alaska! is providing support for Dinosaur Jr.'s reunion tour probably has more to do with intraband connections than musical similarities. Alaskan! bassist Russ Pollard played in Lou Barlow's postDino group Sebadoh from 1997 until 2000, and singer/guitarist Imaad Wasif toured with another Barlow project, the Folk Implosion. But the exclamation pointenhanced trio isn't really an oddball choice for touring buddies: while they don't share Dinosaur Jr's penchant for messy, genrebusting musical chaos, alaska! has a similar potential for controlled noise: at its best the trio churn guitargrinfing maelstroms that sound barely contained. That potential, unfortunately, is not entirely realized on their second album, Rescue Through Tomahawk, which sounds all too contained. Musically, it's frenetic in all the right ways: The rhythm section Pollard and former Red Aunts drummer Lesley Ishino moves agilely across a range of dynamics, from quiet to loud on the gradually building \"Surrender\", from slow to fast on \"The Light\", from gentle to harsh on almost every track. Throughout Rescue Through Tomahawk Imaad Wasif's guitar weaves menacingly, adding a darkly hesitant intro to \"Through the Years\" and a triumphant coda to \"Surrender\". When alaska! plays like an instrumental band, it proves surprisingly formidable: a little subtler than Kinski, a little less abstract than the equally exclamatory Godspeed You! Black Emperor, a little less brutal than Mogwai. However, alaska! isn't an instrumental band; lyrics and vocals dominate their songs. Wasif proves a perfectly adequate singer: his gravelly voice tends toward expressive overenunciation and totherafters projection, and his trippily oblique lyrics lean more toward eerie evocativeness than outright clarity. But really, vocals and lyrics are the least interesting aspects of this album; Wasif doesn't say anything on Rescue Through Tomahawk that the band doesn't state more clearly, concisely, and compellingly through its woundtight sound, its clockwork interplay of instruments, and the friction between styles and musical elements. The songs seem hemmed in by their devotion to Wasif's lyrical structures, and often the attempt to subvert them creates some intriguingly, if unintentionally, tense moments. Pollard kicks out a bassline on \"Real Is Your Control\" that bounces like French pop, and it gives the song an unexpected punch. The guitar solo on \"A Fury of Trees\" plays like an outro, at least until Wasif comes in again with one last verse, but really, the frenetic momentum sounds like the song's one true reason for being. Likewise, most of these songs sound somehow clipped, like they want to cut loose and stretch and sprawl well beyond their imposed limitations. "}