{"label":" Last Gang","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9541/homepage_large.ccd3f794.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Pytlik","artist":"Tiga","title":"Sexor","text":"  Forget chestnuts and nog. The close of the calendar year is a time for rifling through the past twelve months and catching up on all the records you either didn't pay enough attention to or slept on entirely. Released with a whimper in February, Tiga Sontag's Sexor probably falls under that banner for a lot of people. While the Montreal DJ has long enjoyed renown among clubgoers as a toptier supplier of slithery, trashy electro (check his 2002 DJKicks mix for proof), this marks the first original outing of his career. Released on Canada's Last Gang Records best known for breaking the likes of Death From Above 1979, Metric, and MSTRKRFT Sexor finds Tiga atoning for the silence with a series of bangers, skits, and in keeping with a longstanding tradition that's seen him try his hand at everything from Nelly's \"Hot in Herre\" to fellow Montrealer Corey Hart's \"Sunglasses at Night\" a fresh handful of cover treatments. The bad news is that Sexor feels a bit forced, a bit sellotaped together. Where Sontag's singles and remixes are generally pretty immaculate, you can sense his anxiety over the longform format here. Everything from the album's looselyconceived conceptual overlay (Sexor is apparently a planet where \"imagination rules the nation\" and \"sexy lightning always strikes twice\") to its light smattering of voicemail excerpts and telephone conversations points to his willingness to kowtow to longplayer conventions. While it's clear from the tracks' compact running times that he's trying to keep things concise and poppy, he might have been better served by instead letting some of these songs unfurl and build. Nonetheless, with coproduction courtesy of Soulwax and Jesper Dahlback, there's also lots to like here. With a bassline containing trace amounts of \"Material Girl\" and an insidious little chorus, \"Far From Home\" proves Sontag fluent in effervescent, 80stinged synthpop. Elsewhere, Scissor Sisters' Jake Shears tags along for the snaking, sweaty electro of \"You Gonna Want Me\", \"Brothers\" conquers a silly lyric with a convincing New Order impression, and \"Good As Gold\" finds Tiga and producers Soulwax channeling their inner James Murphys to deliver the album's only real epic. Even the covers yield decent returns. Despite being originally released in 2004, Tiga's drastically retooled version of Public Enemy's \"Louder Than a Bomb\" makes strange sense here; perhaps even more surprising is that he also manages to wring genuine atmosphere out of a slowedtoacrawl take on Nine Inch Nails' \"Down in It\". Ultimately though, too much of Sexor feels suspiciously like the middle of the road. If it doesn't bump enough, slink enough, or sing enough, what good is it? Tiga's capable of better than this, and his discography bears that fact out; the good news is that he's reportedly working with Soulwax on a followup. That he's not waiting another five years for the next album has to bode well.  "}