{"label":" Tumult","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9550/homepage_large.7bf5ad7e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Zach Baron","artist":"Solar Anus","title":"Skull Alcoholic: The Complete Solar Anus","text":" Everyone is aware that life is parodic and that it lacks an interpretation. Thus lead is the parody of gold. Air is the parody of water. The brain is the parody of the equator. Coitus is the parody of crime. Gold, water, the equator, or crime can each be put forward as the principle of things... The sea continuously jerks off. Georges Bataille So goes, in part, the text of Bataille's 1927 essay \"The Solar Anus\". And it's hard to resist, right? Everyone is aware that Solar Anus, the band, are parodic and that they lack an interpretation. Thus their band name is a parody of a band name. Their grunting sludge is the parody of real music. Their colorsaturated semipornography is the parody of cover art. Listening to Solar Anus is the parody of relaxation and enjoyment...Solar Anus continuously jerk off. And so on. Japan's Solar Anus share Bataille's pedigree as an obscurity, as surrealists, and now that they've broken up and been memorialized as an artifact, too. Voluntarily consigned to the secret history, Solar Anus join an infinite parade of bands such as Sloth, Cathedral, the Electric Prunes, and Exit 13, many of whom they thank in their liner notes. Because they only began recording in 1997, you couldn't quite call them legendary, but there are worse secrets to be let in on. Skull Alcoholic: The Complete Solar Anus is stunning as an object, sporting a diecut sun in both front and back, and fullcolor, florescentheadache illustrations throughout. Over two discs it contains the sum total of the act's output: 1997's On, 1999's Trance!!, and their final document, 2000's Next World News. Proving the intentionality behind their madness, the records get better with each passing year, conclusively moving them beyond weirdness for weirdness' sake, although that was often their method. The constants were airy Acid Mothers solos and an endlessly muddy undercurrent; but by the end they'd excelled beyond Motörhead riffs and reached a paradisical middle ground between Can and early Metallica. Their songs were also incredibly long.  A fusillade of rotting fruit thrown nowhere in particular. Necrophilia. Onemileperhour lava flow. Like Bataille's work, Solar Anus lend themselves not to narrative but lurid imagery. There is the prehistoric drumming. There are the ambiguous, half torture/half ecstasy screaming and choking sounds. There are the long boogieing passages that go on for 10 minutes at a time. There are no songs: only an ever doomier and more esoteric movement sideways.  Early material such as \"Blue Hood\" has stomp and focus but flickering inspiration. Later update \"Enemy Disappear\" fuses the act's early crunch with a sense of purpose and patience to inflict maximum damage on a listener's mind. They pause; they breathe at you; they stutter at you; they spit in your face and drool on your shoulder. \"Die in the Space\" is like an overstuffed Japanese experimental history lesson: minimalist Keiji Haino meditation becomes Tetuzi Akiyama riffery becomes Kawabata abstraction becomes Boredoms tomsnchants, an endless litany vomited out for what feels like forever. It's not for the faint of Japanese improv heart.  Most seem to agree that the second disc makes the first one disposable: All the best songs, from the Cadillac riffing on \"The Extreme North\" and \"Bone Flesh\" to the offspeed Krautthump of \"Meat Pressure\", are there. But Solar Anus are a fundamentally immersive experience, and they need all their water to drown you properly. Finally, it's now all in the same place.  "}