{"label":" Darla","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9552/homepage_large.1f72a522.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Mahogany","title":"Connectivity!","text":" Very few albums manage to capture the elegance of past modernisms. Referring to an antiquated vision of the future is easy, but finding and expanding upon that timeless kernel of forwardthinking excitement and systematic rigor is no small feat. It comes as little surprise to me that at least one member of Brooklyn eightpiece Mahogany are involved in the world of architecture Connectivity! is as much a structural achievement as it is a simply gorgeous record, cultivating a graceful, timecollapsing sense of modernity. Therein lies the greatest difference between Mahogany and most bands who have been fitted with the \"neoshoegazer\" tag: Unlike many of their reverbloving contemporaries, Mahogany never fall back on atmospherics alone. As gorgeous as these sounds are, they always seem to have a place within the greater plan of the song nothing on Connectivity! registers as unnecessary or obstructive. Rather than playing towards a sense of impenetrable mystery, Connectivity! lays out its inner workings like a wellmade machine. Opener \"Tesselation (Formerly Plateau One)\" could set the scene for a futuristic city at work drum machine beats skitter and shuffle alongside simple, repeated figures on piano and guitar. Even the vocals are broken up into short, efficient geometric phrases. The song evolves intuitively, if not organically, building layer upon layer of blips, synthesizers, and staggered boygirl singing.The short, upbeat \"The View From the People Wall\" and first single \"Supervitesse\" are particularly successful iterations of a similar formula. A straightforward and unaffected vocal style flatters most of the band's material, but when the melodies falter, Connectivity! can seem a little too neat and welloiled for its own good.  The latter parts of the record are less rhythmically rigid and darker in tone. \"Domino Ladder Beta\" sounds like a longlost Arthur Russell outtake, all gorgeous cello, minimal percussion and reverbdrenched vocals.  \"Springtime, Save Our Country\" showcases the band's impressive use of harmonic tension to create mood and movement. By song's end, vocal figures repeat and double back on themselves, eventually dissolving into a beautiful fog of synthesizers and sleigh bells. Stereolab and Broadcast comparisons are obvious and by no means offbase, but the sonics and melodic turns of Connectivity! also bring to mind the Notwist and Securityera Peter Gabriel.   The second disc of Connectivity! includes two alternate mixes done by the Cocteau Twins' Robin Guthrie as well as a lengthier mix of \"Supervitesse\". Guthrie's participation in Connectivity! gives the album an air of credibility, but Mahogany never really attempt the otherworldly beauty of the Cocteaus. While Connectivity! is a gorgeous record, it tends to err towards the neat, the structural, and the logical. Indeed, the album's central tension ultimately constrains its emotional range and resonance Connectivity! is stuck between the ethereal and the mechanical.  It's not a flaw per se, but rather a slight limitation built into a masterfully executed structure.  "}