{"label":" Locust","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9575/homepage_large.9f9aef18.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Starless & Bible Black","title":"Starless & Bible Black","text":"  Fronted by Frenchborn chanteuse Hélène Gautier, the Manchesterbased trio Starless & Bible Black create music from well within the progressive British folkrock tradition carved by Pentangle or Fairport Convention they draw upon any number of intertwined traditions simultaneously. On its debut album, the group moves crisply through songs informed by Appalachian folk, downtempo jazz, Middle English pastoralism, and smoky continental balladry. Taking their name from Dylan Thomas' radio play Under Milkwood and not likely to the dismay of progrock zealots from the King Crimson album title, Starless & Bible Black perform each of their stylistic shifts with an effortless agility, resulting in a collection that captivates primarily through its graceful, almost nonchalant simplicity. The group's three core musicians each brings something unique to the discussion, all the better to help differentiate the group's sound in an overrun folkrock market. Guitarist and homestudio recluse Peter Philipson plays with a clean, deftly syncretic style derived from British folk pioneers Davy Graham and Bert Jansch, quietly filling the corners of these 11 songs with his subtle brushstrokes. Gautier's appealing vocals slip almost invisibly between English and French, recalling Sandy Denny's more delicate work with Fairport as well as homespun contemporaries like Lois Maffeo or Ida's Elizabeth Mitchell. Most intriguing, however, are the contributions of multiinstrumentalist Raz Ullah, whose idiosyncratic electronic drones, tape loops, and samples supply these songs with a crucial undercurrent of drama and dissonance. These elements all join to marvelous effect on the rollicking \"Everyday and Everynight\", as Gautier and Philipson's impeccable boy/girl harmonies and backcountry atmospherics are judiciously spiked with Ullah's cartoon samples and theremin. Ullah's electronic touches are more discreet, and perhaps even a little underused, on quieter tracks like \"Tredog\" or \"The Birley Tree\", with his residual analog drones offering a gentle counterpoint to the group's more formal folk structures.  On several tracks the group expands to a fivepiece with addition of Paul Blakesley on upright bass and Brian Edwards on drums. With this expanded lineup the group are best able to showcase their casual versatility, balancing the jazzy, nearly Tortoiselike \"b.b.\" with the gorgeously lush and cryptic folkrock of \"016013\". These fullband pieces work well in contrast with the album's more elemental tracks, like Philipson's hypnotic instrumental \"Untitled Cantiga\" or Gautier's brilliant rendition of Billy Childish's boozy confessional \"The Bitter Cup\". This traditionbased track sounds particularly arresting from the demure Gautier, as she gives lines like \"whiskey runs through me like a sorrowful river\" a spirited and surprisingly persuasive interpretation, while still managing to sound about a million miles more put together than Childish's harrowing version.  The main question that lingers for reverent folkrock albums like Starless & Bible Black, however, is whether the group's new classicist translations can in any way point toward the future. These musicians are each undeniably skillful folk technicians, and the album should certainly contain much to satisfy discriminating fans of the genre. And ideally, through the further integration of Ullah's electronic experiments and the sheer breadth of the full group's progressive scope, the coming years will see Starless & Bible Black move their sound ever further beyond the echo chamber of mere revivalism.  "}