{"label":" Legacy / RCA","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9576/homepage_large.b8299f23.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Nina Simone","title":"Remixed and Reimagined","text":" The irony of remix collections like this one is that, while they're ostensibly supposed to bring the artist \"up to date\" and keep their music alive by merging classic records with new techniques and technologies, the artist so honored always winds up sounding older and deader. Though Nina Simone passed just a few years ago, through much of this set she sounds like her contributions were peeled off of an old 78; absent her usual arrangements, she becomes just another dusty Ghost of Music Past trapped inside some earringed bald guy's machine. Not that there's anything wrong with that. If records were ever agreed to be holy and beyond the reach of those who like to tinker, those days are long gone. Everything is a work in progress, to be continually repackaged, recontextualized, remastered, and yes, remixed legally and otherwise again and again. And Nina Simone, who fought hard and bitter fights for control of her art, is gone now, and her vote doesn't count. So you may as well meet a remix set like this in the middle. The worst tracks here fail because they sound like they're trying to frame Simone as fashionably \"cool.\" When singing, Simone could be pretentious, goofy, sentimental, melodramatic, angry, and compassionate; she almost never looked on at the world from an icy remove. Despite her oftentragic life, she wasn't Chet Baker. Her husky voice and sometimes behindthebeat phrasing obviously serve as downtempo touchstones, but when given a triphop backing on Daniel Y's \"I Can't See Nobody\" or Coldcut's neobig beat \"Save Me\", she's reduced to a cardboard cutout, propped up in front as a onedimensional caricature. And while she was to my ears perhaps the sexiest vocalist that ever lived, immersed in DJ Wally's mix on \"My Man's Gone Now\", she comes over as \"sexy\" in the manner of an airbrushed babe from a Skyy Vodka ad.  I do, however, have to give it up for Tony Humphries' \"Got U Turned on Dub\" remix of \"Turn Me On\". Enlivened by a snippet of sampled scat vocal and a bubblicious house beat, he alone finds the overflowing life that propelled Simone's best recordings. It's almost eight minutes long but has enough joy and generosity to go another five, easy. And while I'm not crazy about the reverb Francois K. puts on Simone's voice on his mix of \"Here Comes the Sun\" a stylization that homogenizes the most distinctive of instruments the delicate arrangement and beat he stretches behind her have a certain charm. Behind those two, there are another two or three OK tracks, and the remainder of the record is pretty dire. Sad to say, it could have been worse.  "}