{"label":" Grove Music","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9577/homepage_large.11d46a0a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Yabby You","title":"Deliver Me From My Enemies","text":"  Yabby You isn't the biggest name in roots reggae, but as an artist and producer he generated a body of work that measures up well next to the work of giants like Burning Spear, the Abyssinians, and Culture. Born Vivian Jackson, Yabby was in his twenties when he first took to the producer's chair at Channel One Studios and cut the deep roots trilogy of Conquering Lion, Walls of Jerusalem, and Deliver Me from My Enemies, a formidable set of albums that established his decidedly sparse and rhythmically steady sound.Deliver Me from My Enemies is the third and final album in the series; it's clear that Yabby was getting a bit restless, as it's the least consistently fundamentalist of the three. A pair of lovers rock tunes one a cover of a song by John Holt, the master of the form inject variety and signify that Yabby was about more than just singing the praises of Jah and African unity, though he still did plenty of both on the record. Blood & Fire's reissue follows the label's earlier twofer packaging of Conquering Lion and Walls of Jerusalem and is fortified with seven tracks not on the original album. Yabby got his hard, steady rhythms the same way a lot of Jamaican producers did in the 1970s: by anchoring his songs to the rocksolid rhythm section of drummer Sly Dunbar and bassist Robbie Shakespeare, who provide the bedrock here. Sax legend Tommy McCook leads the threepiece horn section, which provides the album's opening fanfare, a drawnout, roughshod melody dustily recorded by Yabby. There's a memorylike haziness to the way Yabby captured most of his horn parts, as though he was trying to get them to sound like the way he thought of Africa, an entity halfway between tangible and intangible, simultaneously a part of his past and his possible future.  The album's title track is positively mighty, with the aforementioned horn theme and Yabby's doubled vocals riding an almost unnervingly deliberate rhythm track. The reissue includes the version from the \"Deliver Me\" 45's Bside, sequenced directly after the original. The new vocal on the version humorously appropriates the Little Miss Muffet children's rhyme, replacing curds and whey with a cherry pie and the spider with a dreadlock who \"takes her away.\"  Thencurrent events get a rare airing from Yabby on \"Pound Get a Blow\", equating devaluation of the Jamaican pound with the encroachment of Babylon. \"Pick the Beam\", which opens with a chord progression that nods to Cannonball Adderley's \"Mercy Mercy Mercy\", is an appeal from Yabby to clear the obstructions that block our own view of the world, so that we can then lead, rather than proselytize. The bonus tracks include two murky, echoladen dubplates of the song that each offer an interesting spin on the original.  In fact, it's a bonus track that steals the whole show. The 12\" mix of \"Babylon a Fall\", credited to the Prophets, a group founded by Yabby, is a thumping vocal trio track ballasted by a liquid line from Robbie Shakespeare. After the vocal trio finishes its work, the horns each take a solo on the long coda, with McCook breaking out his flute for a long duel with the rhythm section.  The only somewhat jarring additions are the two sides of a 12\" Yabby recorded with DJ Trinity, whose toasting is mixed strangely high and comes as something of a shock so late in the disc. That said, they're not bad songs, even if one of them does bizarrely list Guatemala as an African country. Deliver Me from My Enemies is ultimately a set most roots fans will want to get their hands on, as it wraps up a classic run in the studio by Yabby, gathers a lot of rare material in one place and sounds excellent remastered directly from the source.  "}