{"label":" Kitsuné","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9580/homepage_large.b9f62f16.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Kitsuné Maison 3","text":"  Taken in succession, the three compilations French dance label Kitsuné released in the first half of this decade (Love, Midnight, and X) tell a story of a dance hedonist crashlanding on a strange planet, a meteorite fallfromgrace which begins with lush discohouse, plummets through chilly electrohouse, and skids to a halt with crunching electrorock. With the commencement of the Kitsuné Maison series, the story shifts in tone to something of a Robinson Crusoe rewrite, the erstwhile dance explorers settling into their newfound home and trying to build stable structures out of limited, unreliable sonic materials. That Kitsuné have managed to fire off three of their Kitsuné Maison compilations in the space of one year is a testament to both their industriousness and the increasingly firm sense of selfidentity which characterizes this as yet unnamed colony (the Nu French Touch? Haircut House? Indieclash?). Kitsuné Maison 3 continues in the vein of its immediate predecessor, in a somewhat raffish mixture of steroidladen electrohouse, hardriffing electrorock and curiously frail indierock although no Wolfmother this time around, thank God. The appeal of this stuff for rock kids dipping their toes into dance music is pretty clear, but it's less obvious that the fusion works in the other direction, even if the preponderance of dance producers messing with rock on this compilation might suggest otherwise. But then, Kitsuné's current roster make no attempt to hide the fact that they are merely following a path laid out by Daft Punk, Output, the DFA, electroclash, Tiefschwarz and Lord help us Rinôçérôse. These producers haven't found a new way to tackle the problem of merging rock and dance, they're just doing it more simply and impatiently than before. Sometimes the old hands do as they have always done: The compilation's most successful rock song is the sly, sexy \"Home Wit U\" by Freeform Five, who mastered the whole electrohouseasarenarock manœuvre on an epic remix of their own \"Strangest Things\" in 2004, back when the genre's senses of energy, accomplishment and finesse weren't so aggressively untangled from each other. Quite obviously the best produced track here, \"Home Wit U\"'s shuddering beat and fluorescent blobs of keyboards remain more muscular than the weedy guitar sections drafted in on every second track.  Electrohouse didn't need tenuously tuneful, shouty rock acts and their attendant remixers in order to come to grips with guitar music, and Kitsuné's rapprochement with amateurish rock signifiers often adds less than it takes away, jettisoning the sexuality of house without actually upping the sweaty rock catharsis factor. Sometimes instead the rock just gets in the way of all the fun: The speed disco pulse of Oh No! Oh My!'s \"I Love You All the Time\" would be fine if they just left out the turgid indie rock vocals and jarring guitar strums.  If Kitsuné Maison 3 turns out to be slightly better in practice than in theory, it's because a great deal can still be achieved within the confines of the legacy it struggles to uphold: Soulwax's crashing take on the Gossip's \"Standing in the Way of Control\" would fade quickly in a headtohead with Black Strobe, but it's amusing to hear Soulwax upend their entire toybox of sonic tricks so wantonly. In the other direction, Simian Mobile Disco's \"I Believe\" is surprisingly coy slow motion Italopop, its fragility and plasticity a welcome respite from all the posturing.  Even more impressive is the Whitest Boy Alive's \"Done With You\", which moves from pastoral rock to spacey discopunk simply by leaning into its guitar picking and opening its hihats. It sounds like it should have been released on Factory Records in 1982, without sounding quite like anything that actually was released on Factory Records in 1982. Most importantly, it sounds like it doesn't know what on earth it wants to be. Kitsuné would do well to reembrace its spirit of identity crisis.  "}