{"label":" Ryko","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9581/homepage_large.be2c4504.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Miho Hatori","title":"Ecdysis","text":" In spite of what historical revisionism and wishful thinking would have you believe, the great Strokes outbreak of 2001 did not rid the world of numetal or Nickelgrunge. If anyone was victimized by the Strokes' retrorock renaissance, it was a premillennial, postmodernist East Village music scene comprised of recombinant groups Soul Coughing, Luscious Jackson, Firewater, even the latterday Jon Spencer Blues Explosion who mined a New York City musical heritage that went deeper than the Velvet Underground, but who had either disbanded or fallen out of critical favor by century's turn. Standing at the forefront of this lost moment was Cibo Matto, two culinaryobsessed Japanese women Yuka Honda and Miho Hatori who scavenged NYC traditions from bebop to hiphop into riotous wokrocking beats. But the duo's 2001 dissolution was as muted as their 1994 arrival was refreshing, and their twoalbum legacy remains bound to an era when the city's indiemusic culture was epitomized more by Grand Royal magazine's popcultural kitsch than Vice's partyhard decadence. The pronounced paradigm shift in the city's rock culture has obscured just how busy the exCibos have been in the interim: Honda has collaborated with everyone from Caetano Veloso to the Boredoms, while Hatori's pursuits have ranged from the deliberately lowkey (Smokey & Miho, an acoustic bossa nova/samba project with Beck guitarist Smokey Hormel) to the commercially ubiquitous (voicing Gorillaz character Noodle on that band's multiplatinum debut). Knowledge of Hatori's backstory is a prerequisite for making sense of her first solo album, Ecdysis, which plays like something of a careerretrospective mashup. Though the opening lyric suggests a clear break from her foodcrazy former band (\"Sentimental candies/ I put five of them/ Too many in my mouth/ My body feels some sourness\"), the album's dreamlike ambiance (\"dreamlike\" as in strange and random, not sleepy) is highly evocative of the more cerebral end of the Cibo catalogue (c.f. \"White Pepper Ice Cream\"). And the experience of playing a cartoon in Gorillaz has seemingly inspired Hatori to toy with her identity. Though her thickly accented English readily identifies her as a Japanese woman, her narrative perspective is constantly shifting from female to male, from past to future, from deeply personal to nonsensical a malleability reflected by amorphous arrangements that mold traditional instrumentation (violins, trumpets) into burbling electrosonics.  But it's Hatori's burgeoning interest in Tropicalia and Indian rhythms that elevates Ecdysis' exoticpop fantasias above the level of mere Björkian feng shui: \"Walking City\" alternates spokenword storytelling with propulsive, percussive choruses that split the difference between Rio and Bombay, enhancing the song's themes of dislocation and discovery; the bangin' \"Sweet Samsara Part II\" anticipates the Madonna/M.I.A. matchup that's bound to materialize sometime in the next two years. And the initial disappointment that \"Barracuda\" isn't actually a Heart cover is remedied by a seductive samba sway that's pushed askew by a tangle of organ taps, accordions, harmonica, and Hatori's Portuguesesung pleas. Ecdysis expends most of its energy in its first two thirds, before lapsing into a closing trifecta of bossa ballads that do little more than sound pretty. But in those moments where we can hear all of Hatori's divergent influences coalescing into a harmonious whole, Ecdysis makes you believe that, as its maker suggests, \"anything is possible.\" "}