{"label":" Phono","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9584/homepage_large.9e09c994.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Andy Battaglia","artist":"Matthew Herbert","title":"100 Lbs","text":" What gives rhythm personality? There's the actual sound, of course the way matter quivers when struck or shifted; the tone imparted by drums stuffed with towels, ringing triangles, series of circuits triggered just so. This answers to physics, simple causeandeffect. Then there's our sense of expectancy, which plays games with the sound itself. This is more magisterial, contingent on atmosphere and anticipation. When you nod to a hiphop beat, the bap that follows the boom owes its snap to where it falls in a succession; in jazz, the spray of a ride cymbal gains levity by contrast to weighty thuds and rushes below. Take any of these component parts in isolation and they lose something. Dance music is all about the rules of such games. Much of the allure of listening to house and techno comes from submitting to structure; within formalist constraints so easy to recognize, the focus of attention turns fruitfully to details, tweaks, subtle shows of withholding and release that gain in importance what they cede to uniformity. Small flickers stand as grand flashes like an 8th grader who fashions herself cool and iconoclastic by flipping up the collar of a schoolissued shirt.  The rules are there to be brokered and broken, and that's where the Herbert of 100 Lbs comes in. Before drifting toward the emotive song cycles and ideological theatrics for which he's now known, Herbert helped toss the seeds for house and techno marked by personality as much as functionalism. His epochal 2000 DJ mix Lets All Make Mistakes drew manhandled smears and static over rhythms made to sound like they were thinking out loud and think out loud they did. Nothing in Herbert's rhythmic programming has ever sounded preordained; he's more interested in what stands to happen in those fleeting moments when decisions get made.  Originally released in 1996 and reissued now with a bonus disc, 100 Lbs gathers early 12\"s from a time when Herbert was very much a \"dance music\" producer. It would be a while before he bedded down with domestic concerns (see Around the House and Bodily Functions, a brilliant dissection of a breakup with aching lyrics and pensive minimal grooves) and fancied himself foremost as a jazz/disco arranger (see Goodbye Swingtime by the Matthew Herbert Big Band and Scale, a 2006 album about the commutative properties of politics and heartbreak). Before thematic ambition became his main muse, Herbert made dance music that was about nothing more than itself. It's the kind of dance music that bides its time, as a vocal sample on 100 Lbs says, \"thinking of you.\"  Which is also a way of saying it's house music. Soulful vibes and sumptuous moods figure prominently in tracks charted with sketchy aims. In the humid, humming thickets of \"Desire\" and \"Oo Licky\", there's a breathy sense of uncertainty and hesitation that wanders in every few bars, when you can hear Herbert scratching his proverbial head over what best to drop in or trim away. That he sometimes messes up, or at least lets the pause get the better of him, is all the more inducement to keep alert.  It's best not to belabor the process as Herbert himself would later do when he issued a puritanical Dogme 95like manifesto that didn't help deflect accusations of didacticism but the sense of tracks in various states of becoming adds to 100 Lbs' significance, both as an artifact and as an album to be heard now. Lumbering tracks like \"Rude\" don't stand to wow in the context of the present day, but lithe ones like \"Take Me Back\" a strange snatch of thwacking drums and wiggling synths do. They squirm free of the sellby date that often haunts dance music so profoundly and measurably influential.  The bonus disc comprising Bsides and unreleased tracks from 1995 to 2000 is deeper and dubbier, flush with hiccups and stutters of a literal and figurative sort. The sensuous voice of singer Dani Sicilliano gets chopped into abstract sibilants in \"Back to the Start\", while \"Back Back Back Back\" blows deephour spaciousness into \"Take Me Back\". It's unclear what sense of \"back\" Herbert was aiming for at the time tracks so singular and alive still sound anxious to get to the point in dance music that we're still getting to now.  "}