{"label":" Black Velvet Fuckere","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9587/homepage_large.42bf35b8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Jackwacker","title":"...Things From Inside Your Body","text":" It's easy to say that Indiana's Jackwacker sounds like Lightning Bolt. Easy, and accurate: The group's slamming beats, grinding noise, and dizzying changes all evoke the Providence duo. The catch is, Jackwacker only existed between 1993 and 1995, when Lightning Bolt was just an idea in the artschool brains of Brian Gibson and Brian Chippendale. During that brief career, Jackwacker shared the stage with likeminded destroyers including Flying Luttenbachers, Scissor Girls, and Lake of Dracula. But mostly the band ground out its frenetic songs in a Bloomington basement, appearing only on a few 7\" comps and a rare cassette. Things From Inside Your Body collects all that material, plus a trove of previously unreleased tracks. On first listen, one difference between Jackwacker and Lightning Bolt seems to be the presence of guitar. But what sounds like a trio is actually the duo of Rob Stockwell and Elijah Pritchett, the latter playing a hybrid axe equipped with three guitar strings and three bass strings. Pritchett's sound is fascinatingly schizophrenic. His buzzing bass tones dominate, but they also burn with trebly accents, like an smoky explosion with fiery edges. The addition of Stockwell's crashing drums creates a violent mix metal riffs, jazz tempos, hardcore pound, and harsh noise all fight for space. The resulting swirl is so forceful it seems to alter the listener's pulse. Jackwacker's neckbreaking compositions can feel more like exercises than songs, but its best moments fold highwire technique into simple songs. \"Thighmaster\" massages a plodding beat into a caffeinated raveup, while \"Messin' With the PHole\" juxtaposes lumbering bass with quiet noodling. Later, \"Frontal Lobe Blues\" stretches a rolling riff into two fluid halves one part jazzy, Sun City Girlslike syncopation, one part Ruinsstyle pound. The incessant turns are impressive, but Jackwacker can also let go: On \"Prader Willy\", a mess of distortion and screams rivals the cacophony of Harry Pussy and Sightings.  If Things From Inside Your Body has a flaw, it's a fatiguing monotony. Though individual tracks gain momentum through repetition, the album at times sags under its own relentlessness. Jackwacker does save the best for last though: \"Knothead\" rides a circular riff into infinity, and \"SixFoot, TwobyFour, New, Panhandle Rag\" follows by slowly melting under the heat of the group's searing energy. Jackwacker broke up soon after recording these songs, but those final, endlesssounding tracks suggest Pritchett and Stockwell might still be holed up in Bloomington, pounding away at any riffs and beats they can find. At the very least, it's fun to put Things From Inside Your Body on repeat and imagine that they are. "}