{"label":" Die Schachtel","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9590/homepage_large.b28aa6dc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Gruppo di Improvvisazione Nuova Consonanza","title":"Azioni","text":" By some estimates, Ennio Morricone has scored more than 400 films. He's one of a handful of truly iconic film composers, immediately recognizable to fans across the musical spectrum, from jazz to rock to classical. And yet, somehow Morricone has never won an Academy Award. No matter how much weight you accord the Oscars, that's an insult, but Morricone's taken his numerous slights and losses with good humor. In a 2001 interview with The Guardian, Morricone quipped (via translator), \"If it was up to me, I'd win an Oscar every two years!\" With the Academy no doubt hedging its bets, at 78 he'll receive a consolation prize this year an honorary lifetime achievement Oscar, mere weeks after he makes his U.S. live conducting debut. While Morriconephiles continue to unearth unheard or forgotten scores from the legendary Italian composer, musical archaeologists have been discovering, digging up, and dusting off a relatively obscure period in Morricone's career, a stint spent in the improvisational 1960s collective Gruppo di Improvvisazione Nuova Consonanza, whose experiments with musique concrète informed Morricone's scores. Composition is just very slow improvisation, goes the saying, so maybe it's no surprise to hear so many parallels to Morricone's often wonderfully strange film works in Azioni, a 2xCD/DVD collection. At the same time, while Morricone may be the most famous alumni of Il Gruppo, he's not necessarily the most important. Indeed, he's just one of several prominent, talented voices dedicated to deconstructing themselves and diving into dissonance, among them (at least for these 19671969 sessions) Mario Bertoncini, Walter Branchi, founder Franco Evangelisti, John Heineman, Roland Kayn, Egisto Macchi, and Ivan Vandor.  In the companion DVD which features interviews and invaluable footage from a 1967 performance in Rome Evangelisti is asked how audiences react to the group. He responds, \"Some are shocked, some others pleased, and some even think that we can't play the instruments.\" That the same reaction has been provoked by everyone from obvious predecessors like John Cage to Il Gruppo's later contemporaries in AAM through such heavily, proudly indebted followers as John Zorn really says it all.  But watching Il Gruppo, say, huddled over a piano, pulling and scraping at its strings is a bit like reading spoilers before seeing a movie, so better to dive into the previously unreleased music first, while it all remains a sonic mystery. At any given time over the course of the two generous discs it's impossible to tell just how many hands are at work, let alone what they're up to. What's remarkable is that amidst all the action it's generally easy to hear different voices. Bowed metal, bird calls, breathy trumpet bleats (courtesy Morricone), and plodding pianos are among the more recognizable of the sometimes whimsical, often spooky sounds, yet there's clearly a method to the madness.  Evangelisti (who died in 1980) called Il Gruppo \"the first group in the world made up totally of composers,\" but that could be said of virtually any improvisational group. Still, this is an act whose members know better than to step on one another's toes. There's space in the racket, pauses to allow the sounds to sink in, or maybe to grant the members a chance to imagine what comes next. They're clearly thinking on their feet, aided only by their eyes and ears. Maybe that's why their music remains just as challenging and enthralling today as it must have been at its inception.  Il Gruppo remained active throughout the 70s Morricone \"conducted\" them for his score to 1971's Gli Occhi Freddi Della Paura, and the similarly unearthed Musica Su Schemi captures a performance from 1976 but it was during this exciting late60s period that the group was really onto something, unleashing their music Ids and heading into parts unknown.  "}