{"label":" Exit Stencil","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9595/homepage_large.50e7a05b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Blake Miller","title":"Together With Cats","text":" In my search for unique, exceptional music, I'm not sure why I even bothered to check out this album nothing about its façade indicates that Blake Miller is anything but an average, coffeehousecircuit singer/songwriter. Although Miller's folk is genuinely freaky, he apparently doesn't feel compelled to advertise it by making up a weird name for himself, like \"Wooden Wand and the Vanishing Voice,\" \"Holopaw,\" or \"Devendra Banhart.\" He doesn't dress like an H&M model from the Ozarks. He doesn't even decorate his album cover with copulating unicorns or handdrawn paisley: Instead, it's an unexceptional shot of Miller looking pensive in green silhouette. On the surface, the freakiest thing about this album is its terrible title. Besides that, Miller is 19 years old. I don't know anything about him, nor do I want to the music speaks for itself without any persona to bolster it. This isn't the end of the misdirection this album seems to revel in the first track, \"Sinners\", is a red herring, nothing like the ensuing songs. Miller counts off a frayed acoustic strum and launches into a bloozy belt, pierced with falsetto harmonies. I actually enjoy \"Sinners\", with its overstated raucousness and sharp imagery (i.e., when Miller takes a bow and shoots a pair of giant glowing eyes out of the sky), but a whole album of it would have worn thin quickly. Happily, only one other song uses this format, and it's a winner as well: The bongoblues of \"Mr. Green\" is mean and violently shucking, wrapping its clattering core in a tangle of handclaps, exhortative ad libs, yowling tomcat embellishments and monochromatic harmonies. Here's to small doses. Miller owes a clear debt to early Banhart, with his murky arrangements, overlapping falsettos, and sinister little slides into a nasal vibrato; he's also beholden to Iron & Wine's The Creek Drank the Cradle, with his fondness for doubletracked high/low vocals. Since both of these artists have moved on to bigger and ostensibly better things, it's a pleasure to revisit their humble homerecording days by proxy: the omnipresent tape hiss, the found sounds, the collaged vocals, the oceanic ebb and flow. The murmuring \"International\" stands in stark contrast to \"Sinners\" the quavering harmonies sound submerged, as do the flecks of guitar, glinting distantly like coins in a pond. The melody is alluringly shapeless, swirling mysteriously over percolating hand percussion.  Blake's at his best when exploring loose structures and leavening them with unexpected sounds: The typewriter clacks, plaintive sour notes, and noisy harmonica blares of \"Summer She's Hiding\"; the deliriously sawing violins on the cloudy chamber dirge \"Mama Papa Witch Daddy\"; the bleating horns and ratcheting mouth percussion of \"Like Birds Pouring Out My Sides\". Green turns out to be a very appropriate color for the cover of Together with Cats, given the music's eerie, subaquatic eldritch glow, and the jealousy it'll inspire in less naturally gifted young musicians. I'm reminded that the idiom we call freakfolk tends to work best at its most rudimentary, and that the old axiom about books and covers extends to albums as well.  "}