{"label":" Misra","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/970/homepage_large.c2c5bfae.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian James","artist":"Bruces","title":"The War of The Bruces","text":" Despite the plural name and a short list of session players, The Bruces begin and end with one Alex McManus, a seasoned veteran of the indie scene who has played with Empire State, Lambchop, Vic Chesnutt, and Bright Eyes. The War of the Bruces isn't his debut, but it might as well be: several years ago, he pressed a mere 500 copies of his first record, Hialeah Pink. He's shown ironclad reluctance to put out his own music, preferring the side of someone else's stage to his own spotlight, so it comes as a welcome surprise to his tiny coterie of fans to find that he's released an album one can own without a prerequisite pilgrimage to Atlanta's used record shops. Anyone who hears The War of the Bruces is more than likely hearing The Bruces for the first time, and it's a fine introduction. Though he dips deep into the well of American roots music for inspiration, McManus does more than simply rehash folk and blues tunes with a rock 'n' roll beat. These songs are rarely louder than Robert Johnson, and always softer than Howlin' Wolf, which is a refreshing change from the pickpockets who believe the blues can't be played or sung too hard. That said, The War of the Bruces isn't really a roots record; McManus reenvisions his source material like a less theatrical Tom Waits, replacing standard twelvebar structures with an unpredictable and fascinating sense of drift, allowing for almost inexhaustible possibilities. Instruments don't come in at a designated times, instead floating in and out unceremoniously. In the other hand, this might come off as irritating freeform, the musings of a jam band, even while McManus' overarching ideals nudge songs forward surely as Mark Twain guided Huck and Jim down the Mississippi. Furthering this analogy, The War of the Bruces is a taut, spontaneous adventure, rather than some labored, selfconscious contrivance. Nowhere is this better represented than its final stretch, where each song flows unnoticed into the next, with ominous noise rising up to threaten the strained tranquility of a seamless suite. Even without his other accomplishments, this is exhilarating stuff, a promising younger brother of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot. Yet, alluring as it may be, The War of the Bruces certainly won't attain the dizzying critical popularity of Wilco's recent triumph, for a few regrettable reasons. First, McManus' voice sometimes borders on a warble, wavering too much for popular tastes. His lyrics are also spotty, and occasionally but very noticeably transpose vulgarity and sincerity. Lastly and this is an injustice the album's sparse, unstructured feel will turn off listeners who demand overt song structures. The running order raises that hurdle higher, sequencing the album's least effective experiments before its lastlap sprint to glory. Still, for those with an open mind and a modicum of patience, there's much to love about this mysterious record. "}