{"label":" Ninja Tune / Counter","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9606/homepage_large.bcf4ebb8.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Pop Levi","title":"The Return to Form Black Majick Party","text":" I don't know when Pop Levi was born it's hard enough finding the dude's real name online but if I had to pick a date, I'd wager on Sept. 16, 1977…which just so happens to be the day Marc Bolan's Mini Cooper wrapped itself around a tree, killing its owner. Of course, despite both principals' halfJewish heritage, the reincarnation theory seems somewhat implausible: for one, Levi rocks a moptop instead of corkscrew hair, and the Liverpudlian's CV as a member of Ninja Tune Krautrock jammers Super Numeri and a touring bassist/remixer for Ladytron suggests more electro warrior than Electric Warrior. But it's a theory I'm willing to buy after spending the past month with The Return to Form Black Majick Party, an admirably cocksure debut on which Levi makes like a 21st century T. Rex which, our current retroobsessed rock culture notwithstanding, is not an easy thing to pull off. Like all genre descriptors, \"glamrock\" has been the victim of overuse and abuse, to the point where it now refers to a peroxide Gerard Way wailing away in a Sgt. Pepper coat. However, the movement's definitive works —Bowie's The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust, T. Rex's The Slider, the first Roxy Music album, Sparks' Kimono My House weren't the simple products of overthetop theatricality and melodramatic posturing, but rather a series of delicate balances: 1950s rock/doowop nostalgia vs. cosmic futurism, lovesong sentimentality vs. jivetalk jibberish (\"she's a total blamblam!\"), ornate orchestration vs. raw fuzztone boogiewoogie, hippie bliss vs. punk provocation, limp wrists vs. clenched fists. But it's a complex highwire act that The Return to Form Black Majick Party consistently pulls off with impressive precision. Nowhere is Pop Levi's wizardry more apparent than on a reprise of last fall's single, \"Blue Honey\": On paper, it reads like a rote exercise in T. Rex formula (\"Buick Mackane\" tightpant swagger + sinister \"Children of the Revolution\" symphonics), but the result feels several decades removed from its 70s sources, thanks to a timebombtick drummachined gait and triggered handclaps that heighten the tension and keep the bombast at bay. What's immediately clear is that Levi isn't an electro enthusiast who's decided to make rock music; he makes rock music as if were electronic, putting a premium on rhythm, repetition, and economy.  Though Pop Levi tours with a basic powertrio setup,  Black Majick Party doesn't capture the natural alchemy between players in a band; it's a rock'n'roll album where the most important instrument is the mixing board. Nearly every track is introduced by some kind of backwardtape effect or swirling texture, but the songs themselves are lean, compact and mathematical in their construction. Even a straightahead sockhop raveup like \"PickMeUp Uppercut\" is as much about machination as motion: Levi and a brownnote bass line play callandresponse with a chorus of his own voices, while those omnipresent synthetic handclaps project a hyperactive gusto that would be hard to replicate with a regular human palms. \"Dollar Bill Rock\" is essentially \"Roll Over Beethoven\" reduced to a single chord and bouncingball beat, but it comes decorated with Levi's huffing and puffing vocal ticks, giddy \"dolladolladolla\" harmonies and loopy Farfisa accents all that's missing is a soundtrack of the screaming teenage girls that Levi is surely imaging he's playing for.  Like so many of the classicrock albums Levi's clearly studied, Black Majick Party assumes a mostly binary electric/acoustic sequence, and the more strippeddown moments can tilt toward the overly whimsical: on glockenspieled serenade \"Flirting\", Levi's effete vocal stretches the title to six syllables, while the freeform folk reverie \"See My Lord\" feels more like an interlude unnecessarily stretched past the twominute mark. But Levi also turns in two ace stargazing ballads that would be perfect for slow dances in the ballrooms of Mars: \"Skip Ghetto\" and the closing rockabye lullaby \"From the Day That You Were Born\", the latter of which is made no less affecting by the knowledge that Levi is, in fact, childless. Because as Levi would probably tell you, the key to glamrock glory isn't extravagant fashion, it's the suspension of disbelief ours and, more importantly, his own.  "}