{"label":" Chapter","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9617/homepage_large.d66a20b3.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Kath Bloom","title":"Finally","text":" It's almost unfair to start off Kath Bloom's new collection with \"Come Here\". It's her most popular song, having graced a crucial scene in Richard Linklater's 1995 film Before Sunrise, but more than that \"Come Here\" is such a perfect little moment so beautiful and subtly erotic in its restraint that very few songs can follow it. Unsurprisingly, not one of the baker's dozen tracks on the aptly titled Australian collection Finally can match it for concision, delicacy, directness, or just plain beauty. But that's not really saying very much. \"Come Here\" is devastating in its simplicity, with Bloom's crystalline voice conveying powerful desire as she sings straightforward lines like \"I am not impossible to touch/ I have never wanted you so much/ Come here.\" It's both a lover's plea and an artist's invitation into open arms and into another person's interior life. \"Come Here\" shows Bloom as a supremely intuitive singer and songwriter, precise yet vulnerable in her phrasing and imagery, and despite a few bumps, Finally bears out that impression. 2006 was a strong year for singers like Bloom, female folkies whose short careers (if they can even be considered such) were in inverse proportion to their undeniable talent. Karen Dalton's glorious swansong In My Own Time saw the light of day again, as did obscurities by Judee Sill, Sybille Baier, and Sachiko Kanenobu. Even in this company, Bloom remains an outsider: She is from a younger generation than the others, starting her career in New York during the 1970s and retiring to Connecticut in the 1980s, but continuing to record into the present. All the tracks on Finally were recorded in the 1990s except two, which are from 2005. Her body of work from the 70s and 80s is legendary, but largely unheard: vague legal matters, perhaps surrounding her musical partnership with guitarist Loren Mazzacane Connors, prevent the official rerelease of her early material. The more recent songs on Finally, however, sound like they could have been recorded at any point during the last four decades. In addition to her gracefully lilting melodies, Bloom has retained her younger bohemian sensibilities, issuing sentiments along the lines of \"Why do we have to deal in money/ When it don't mean a thing it don't mean a thing?\" But she reminds herself: \"Oh yeah if you had money, you'd sure be drinking a better wine.\" Unlike Neil Young on Prairie Wind or America on Here & Now, she isn't trying to relive her hippie days or indulge easy nostalgia, mainly because Bloom never outgrew them, as her recent work (including political songs for recent New Hampshire senatorial candidate Ned Lamont) shows. A keen awareness of social inequalities plays out in these songs like a kind of broad activism: Lamenting her own depression and indecisiveness, she sings, \"The rich folk have psychiatrists/for the poor there's no one there/No amount of fancy talk will ever make it fair.\" It's a pointed comment, but that last line shows an adult's realization that maintaining hope in the world is nearly impossible and maybe even futile. Instead, Bloom would rather change herself and live by her own code, even if the world around her appears so discouraging.  Bloom retreats into her music and takes an obvious joy in its work, allowing the certainty of the melodies to offset her emotional reservations. Despite its heartbreak, \"Forget About Him\" shuffles along with a chinup tempo, alternately comical (\"There's a boy up the road and he wants to take me out some/Well, he doesn't know that I'm not gonna be too much fun much fun much fun\") and tragic (\"‘Cause when he kisses me, I'm gonna cry/ I do believe I'm gonna have to die to forget about him\"). The steady smile with which Bloom faces every disappointment whether romantic, social, or even professional illuminates these bittersweet songs like a candle in a votive. Hopefully, Finally will be the first of many reissues.  "}