{"label":" Table of the Elements / Xeric","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9621/homepage_large.73975fb5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"David Daniell","title":"Coastal","text":" Coastal isn't an obviously appropriate name for the second solo album from David Daniell. It's a name better suited for a release from San Agustin, the improvisational Atlanta trio in which Daniell plays electric guitar. San Agustin's music has always been tidal waves of cymbals and steelwound strings stirring into major and minor crests. But Coastal is, all told, an album for solo electronics, and electronic music isn't generally associated with such naturalist, organic modifiers. Though Daniell plays drums, pedal steel guitar, and dulcimer here and borrows violin from Erin Boyette this is, for all intents, a pedalsandprocessors album on which simple sources are electronically bent into anomalous but congruent layers and drones. But Coastal doesn't abide by customs; instead, its creator aims to reshape temporarily, at least his audience’s sense of hearing. Indeed, like some of his best experimental and electronic forbearers, Daniell submits everything on Coastal to a litany of effects pedals and software patches: Sounds stick, bounce, rattle, reverberate, get lost, amplified, shifted, and scrambled, and, eventually, they aggregate into their own world. It's Daniell's holistic, rearranged perception that stares one of experimental music's biggest misconceptions down without flinching: Beautiful and ugly are often treated as mutually exclusive. Steve Reich's Pendulum Music and Alvin Lucier's Still and Moving Lines of Silence in Families of Hyperbolas: Part III, Number 11 (released on Daniell's Antiopic label) pressure the same common knowledge, but Daniell resumes the argument again for most of Coastal's 58 minutes.  There's something defiantly ambivalent about his tones, be it the piercing upper register or the thick waveforms of the bass quaking through \"Palmetto\". Over that track's 27 minutes, Daniell showcases a refined sense of pacing, stacking pure drones and corroded waves to build explosive roars or complete silence. It's as edgy as his upperregister squalls, which glow, their harsh presence almost comforting. But that bass pulse very low but entirely approachable skips in a nearly sinister way, a familiar tone dialing into unsettling patterns. Daniell treats the character of his sounds not as a dualism but instead on a wide gradient, allowing specific elements to come together.  Even \"Sunfish\", an eightminute track built around acoustic guitar, challenges the notion. An acoustic guitar, one supposes, is pastoral and tranquil. And it starts that way, Bert Jansch phrases suspending themselves in a humid matrix. By the time Daniell finishes wrapping acoustic arpeggios and melodies around the basic structure, his original slides sound like a beautiful mess. And maybe that's the nature of the whole coast, anyway: You jump in or walk away. Either way, things are going to be interesting. "}