{"label":" Menlo Park","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9625/homepage_large.4e303daa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By David Raposa","artist":"To Live and Shave in L.A.","title":"Noon & Eternity","text":" According to To Live & Shave in L.A.'s Wikipedia entry (which reads more like a press release), erstwhile Shavers Tom Smith & Frank \"Rat Bastard\" Falestra set out to create a sound based on \"a mélange of... musique concrète, dub, 70s glam, freeimprovised music, and the works of a variety of transgressive authors and filmmakers.\" What this meant in the past was confrontational songs with obnoxious titles that lived up to a tenet of Smith's philosophy \"the more exalted one's intent, the more insipid the moniker should be.\" What this means for Noon to Eternity is a confrontational album that's surprisingly approachable. This latest collection of exaltations from TLASILA isn't any less confrontational than works of the past Noon and Eternity consists of four tracks, none shorter than nine minutes, with two of them taking up twothirds of the album's total running time. If you're looking for that 70s glam vibe, you'd be better off hitting yourself in the head with Mott the Hoople records. The other reference points mentioned above, however, are all over this thing. The music swampy, slow, queasy hearkens back to the nascent days of no wave, with Smith's lugubrious vocals not dissimilar to Arto Lindsay's hoarse whispers. Good luck picking out the words, though no doubt Tom Smith means what he says, but he's not going to actually come out and just say it. There are a few repeated key phrases that stick out \"this home and fear,\" \"mass graves are found last year\" that, coupled with the bronze soldier on the album's cover, hint at a very topical theme. But Smith does his best to make these cogent fragments unrecognizable, strangling the syllables as they slither through the band's tribal cacophony. Even the snippets of sampled dialog get lost amidst the meditative clanging and chiming and bursts of static. In 2002, Pitchfork's Jason Nickey gave TLASILA's The Wigmaker in EighteenthCentury Williamsburg the sort of backhanded praise that belies a begrudging respect: \"If I ever put this doubledisc set on again it's because I'm playing it for a curious friend, or I've sunk so deep into a bout with selfloathing that I want to cause irreparable damage to my nervous system.\" In contrast, Noon is almost an album of gentle ambiance (in a slasher flick fashion). Smith, in conjunction with bandmates/notsostrange bedfellows Don Fleming and Andrew WK, produce a mix that makes this difficult racket easy on the ears, while not compromising the intent of the music. \"Mothers Over Silverpoint\" transitions from the expected crashing racket to a softer wash of noise that would make Goblin fanboys (like Zombi) extremely jealous. When \"This Home And Fear\" switches from queasy soundscape to urrock raveup, the transition between these states jars the listener gently. And perhaps this is this album's most remarkable trick it's a mess of noise that isn't all that noisy. "}