{"label":" Kompakt","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9632/homepage_large.cd173834.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Pop Ambient 2007","text":"  At this moment I'm listening to Kompakt's latest Pop Ambient compilation through headphones plugged into my laptop and as I type I can feel with my hands the vibration of the CD spinning. Popnoname's \"Hafen\" begins with a subbass rumble and it's like the sound coming into my ears is also resonating through my fingers. This is what the Pop Ambient series at its best is all about: Taking what might on one hand seem to be cerebral listening music and seeing if it's possible to move it into the realm of the body. And this year's edition is the series at its best, a subtle but assured uptick from 2006. Pop Ambient compilations are remarkably consistent in both quality and tone, but there are variations from year to year, and the 2007 edition seems like a partial return to the droney, vaporous feel of the project's turnofthemillennium launch. And this kind of Pop Ambient experience delivers sounds both meditative and enveloping, like the music is seeping into your pores. Most of the tracks here focus on this sort of drift. Markus Guentner's \"Altocomulus Opacus\" shows that all his time spent wearing his microhouse/neotrance dancefloor hat hasn't dulled his ability to set a slowly throbbing synth pulse in the middle of a room and let it gradually unravel. \"Nach 1912\" is a track from original master and Kompakt head Wolfgang Voigt's sorely missed Gas alias, formerly available only on an obscure compilation. Judging from the track's sonic markers (lack of vinyl samples, no loop from a Wagner symphony) it dates from around the time of Königsforst, and it sounds now almost a decade later as powerful and dark and genius as ever. Ulf Lohmann's fine \"Lai King Est\" is another comainducing depth charge, and Andrew Thomas contributes the quietly glitchy \"I Am Here Where Are You\".  If much of Pop Ambient 2007 appears to look back to the inception of the series, the few tracks that break the mold do so in interesting ways. \"Kappsta\" by the Field, with its steady 4/4 beat and continual sample of a looped syllable from a female voice, goes for the candied, popinflected and blissedout returntothewomb drugginess of, say, Superpitcher's remix of MFA's \"The Difference it Makes\" or Kaito's entire output. Jörg Burger, working as Triola, contributes \"Das Wunder Der Kulperhütte\", an unusually brooding and ominous track for him under this name.  Still not crazy about Klimek, but if you're a fan of Sebastian Meissner's treated guitar samples, \"Ruined in a Day (Buenos Aries)\" is more varied and poignant than his normal fare. In fact, it seems more composed and a little rock influenced, a meditation on two chords that isn't all that far from the Tren Brothers. Like others here, the Klimek track included is one of the best of its kind, which makes for an exceptionally good comp. No paradigms are shattered, obviously; if anything, Pop Ambient 2007 seems a bit retro and is all the better for it. "}