{"label":" Sub Pop","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9634/homepage_large.cfac9a34.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"The Shins","title":"Wincing the Night Away","text":" While indie rock has embraced grander and more elaborate productions, the Shins have remained unlikely champions of uncertainty and understatement. Unlike many of their meteorically successful indie peers, the Shins don't want to change your life and that's a good thing, because the band's biggest strength is an uncanny gift for conjuring a deep, vivid, and palpable sense of the familiar. Many of the Shins' best songs evoke a feeling of comfort and closeness that's immediately recognizable but rarely experienced intimacy is the band's best weapon, amplifying the subtle ebbs and flows of their music so that the slightest injection of unease or melancholy hits with remarkable force. On their third Sub Pop fulllength, Wincing the Night Away, the Shins take a decisive but wobbly step out of their comfort zone, and in doing so sacrifice much of this musical/emotional proximity effect. While the band has taken a good deal of criticism for sounding \"too average\" or \"boring,\" the illsuited sonic punch of Wincing the Night Away throws the singular strengths of their previous work into stark relief. The almostlive sounding Chutes Too Narrow left plenty of room for singer James Mercer's excellent vocals to guide its songs both melodically and rhythmically. But on Wincing, tooloud drums and bass distract not only from the elegant movement of Mercer's melodies, but from the delicate harmonic tensions that underlie them. That said, the first four tracks of Wincing are unerringly solid. Echoing the striking contrast of Chutes Too Narrow opener \"Kissing the Lipless\", Wincing's lead track, \"Sleeping Lessons\", builds from sparse, muffled arpeggios to fullon rock'n'roll. While slick and robust production doesn't flatter much of the record, it works well as a counterpoint to the song's quiet initial moments. \"Australia\" is a peppy rocker in the spirit of Chutes' best, elevated by a newfound confidence and expressive range in Mercer's voice. Single \"Phantom Limb\" is pure, lush pop, boasting a chorus that plays like the aural equivalent of that optical illusion where a staircase appears to ascend indefinitely. With the exception of the excellent \"Red Rabbits\", the more noticeable aesthetic departures on Wincing don't fare as well. \"Sea Legs\", with its intrusive synthesized drum beat and lackluster arrangement, brings to mind that unfortunate Eve 6 song about putting your heart in a blender, while \"Spilt Needles\" comes off as sterile and overcalculated, despite its strong chorus. Still, the album finishes strong: \"Girl Sailor\" surpasses \"Phantom Limb\" in lyrics and overall structure, making it a likely contender for the album's second single, and \"A Comet Appears\" is beautifully orchestrated, if not terribly memorable, making it an appropriate closer for a record that often emphasizes texture over form. There's a timehonored imperative to encourage bands for attempting to develop and expand, and the Shins could certainly take their music in many different directions with great success. But it's hard not to notice that the least adventurous tracks on Wincing the Night Away are generally the most rewarding. In many cases, the album's more experimental touches seem at odds with the natural elegance of Mercer's songwriting, making it hard to read the album as a shoddy blueprint of what a more \"difficult\" Shins record might sound like. Instead, Wincing the Night Away is a lovely and wellexecuted album and for the first time in the band's career nothing more. "}