{"label":" Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9640/homepage_large.c025d453.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"A Life Less Lived: The Gothic Box","text":" There's not much to criticize about A Life Less Lived, apart from the obvious occupational hazards of memorializing a genre quite so gleefully ludicrous as gothrock. Unfazed by the Misfits having beat them to the \"our box set comes in a tiny coffin\" trick, Rhino have wrapped this 3xCD/DVD set in something the average goth is more likely to have actually been inside laceup faux leather and slipped in a 58page book full of some pretty entertaining stuff: pictures, songbysong notes, essays, some cheeky \"How to Dance Goth\" instructions, and quotes from musicians either reminiscing about the 1980s or complaining about being included because they were NOT GOTH dammit SHUT UP. (The Cocteau Twins' Robin Guthrie: \"I was way too fat to be a fucking goth!\") No one will get very far into this music without a pretty intuitive sense of that tone the mix of devotion and affectionate parody, the ability to laugh over something's absurdity and still be (ahem) dead serious about it. Because no matter how many Florida teenagers thought they were actually vampires, the fact is that goth a form of dance music has always been more fun than scary. Case in point, maybe: Alien Sex Fiend's \"Now I'm Feeling Zombified\". Forget capes and corsets this little legend is nine minutes of chintzy, acidic squelching, motoring angrily along with a frontman who makes Marilyn Manson look like Tony Bennett. The wonder of the thing is that it's a treat no matter which way you come at it: On one level, it's grim, cathartic, and a blast for dancing; on another, it's just fun to sing along in ridiculous cretinousmonster voices. And oddly enough, it's that same appreciation of the ridiculous that can get you through some of the bands that took their drama seriously the stadium gothrock bands scattered through these discs, bands whose punkmeetsglam drama finds its next of kin in... well, hair metal, another 1980s genre that's dated pretty strangely. (If you don't believe me or the Cult just watch the Mission (UK) video on the DVD, which looks and sounds like psychedelic bikers have taken over Def Leppard.) Even the worst of the music here tends to be fascinatingly novel: No matter how many preening gothinfluenced bands make their way onto modernday radio, this stuff feels a world away from us. Why? Because while we all give \"goth\" credit as an abstract notion a quality and style that's become one of the main pillars of the rock world we tend not to think much about the bands that really codified it, and even less about how its musical influence has worked out. Twenty years later, the compilers of this set have actually done a terrific job of tracing those things, especially considering how vague and malleable the word \"goth\" has gotten over the years. And while no one's pretending the world hasn't seen a lot of goth bands with, in Bauhaus guitarist Daniel Ash's words, \"too much makeup and no talent,\" the selections in this box wind up making a great case for two things: The damned high quality of a lot of forgotten firstwave goth, and the sheer verve, insanity, and creativity of some of its musicians.  They start with familiar classics from the bands who turned out to be goth's godfathers Joy Division, the Cure, Bauhaus, Siouxsie & the Banshees but the heart of the thing remains England's 1980s goth heyday, where the urge to dance comes out in grim, grinding, relentless music for the fake undead: Look to the Sisters of Mercy's steamroller \"Temple of Love\", or Tones on Tail's \"Christian Says\". They sprinkle in darker tracks from the pop bands who filled out goths' record collections: Echo & the Bunnymen, the Cocteau Twins, the Jesus & Mary Chain. They follow the aesthetic as it comes to North America (Christian Death), reunites with punk (the Misfits), meets up with electronic dance music (Skinny Puppy), and starts to become \"industrial\" (Ministry), and then they glance back at the acts who were the godfathers of that (Throbbing Gristle, Einstürzende Neubauten). They stop in on the kind of arty, spooky goth that was more likely to have women singing (Dead Can Dance, Miranda Sex Garden), and close off with a nice pastmeetsfuture moment: Modernday band AFI covering the Cure's \"The Hanging Garden\".  Within all that is a rich vein of terrific pop music, from bands whose more overthetop impulses seem 20 years down the road less silly and more brilliantly daring. Between the steady, clanging beat and the dark energy they're working to summon, the best of them genuinely shred: See Red Lorry Yellow Lorry's \"Walking on Your Hands\", which channels Joy Division for people who wish they'd rocked steadier. It's just as striking to sort through how much these bands contributed to the sound of modern music, with their cavernous, trebly productions helping pioneer the whole use of hard, ugly sound every time you love a track for how happily brutal it is, some small credit is owed in goth's direction. (Some acts here take that to bold extremes; the most notable example comes from 1991: Daniel Ash's \"Coming Down\" is 12bar blues, only tinny and echoing and with the most curdled vocal treatment possible.) There are also plenty of reminders of goth's other side, the atmospheric, psychedelic spook that descended from Joy Division and the Cure.  Spend enough time with this box, and it just might turn you into a closet goth. The timing is perfect, too, and not just because My Chemical Romance sell lots of records. Some songs have a nervy energy that reflects against today's dancerock; some have a ludicrous screech that reflects against today's noise bands. And all of it the spooky atmospheres, metallic productions, keening voices, dark drama has more than a little in common with this site's favorite record of last year, the Knife's Silent Shout. Best of all, it's the rare box set a person can buy to sink into a world that unless you've been a serious goth all along feels alien and new: These acts have been stuck in the goth ghetto so long that you might be amazed how much they have in common with their betterremembered peers.  "}