{"label":" Playhouse","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9642/homepage_large.3ff454b6.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Ricardo Villalobos","title":"Fizheuer Zieheuer","text":" To those who track the ambitious (and occasionally absurd) movements of the ChileanGerman DJ and producer Ricardo Villalobos, his latest effort may seem like selfparody. While Ricardo Villalobos has always been known for crafting long, minimalist tracks, this one surely takes the cake, clocking in at 37 minutes and offering little in the way of development, surprise, or variation along the way. And though it may come as a bit of a shock, here that is not a bad thing. At the risk of being reductive, Fizheuer Zieheuer essentially consists of a lone boomtick pattern so basic it might serve as the housemusic chapter of a beatmakers' tutorial overlayed with two interlocking horn parts. One is a minorkey, mostly ostinato figure that oompahs almost uninterrupted for the length of the track; a trumpet solo occasionally breaks through like a ray of light through low, grey clouds. A bonus cut, \"Fizbeast\", rounds out the CD release to bring total running time to more than 72 minutes downloader's value alert! but that remix remains even more restrained. Its own interior dubscape is so minimally variegated as to be almost dizzying, like playing hopscotch on a moving sidewalk in zero gravity in a blizzard. And yet, any minimalist will know that no mere tabulation of the elements can get at the heart of repetition, and that's certainly the case here. Working more minimally than he ever has, Villalobos finds perpetual motion in seeming stasis, using judicious filters and delay to ensure that no two bars are alike. His pinhead moonstomping is like the sonic version of micropsia, in which traditional perspective fails and objects lose their scale: echoes outgrow their sources and offbeats shadowbox their downbeats to death. And while the chorused, beerhall horns never quite cede the center, they're occasionally threatened by a lone percussive sound that hammers away at the Two and Four: a bright, metallic ringing, it sounds uncannily like a baseball bat struck against the frame of a chainlink fence. (Ricardo goes Little League? How oddly American.) Absurd as it may be, following that one sound and its bobbleheaded echoes is one of the track's great, hypnotic pleasures.  But it's the brass that give \"Fizheuer Zieheuer\" its real power. The horns, after all, are what most people use to identify the track, and they're what leap out and grab you when you hear it in a DJ set. But the horns have also become a sticking point. I don't think anyone ever seriously believed that Villalobos himself played or even commissioned the horns, but in recent weeks this already polarizing cut a critical darling, it's been panned in equal measure on forums like Discogs.com, where its length has invited terms like \"pompous\" and \"pretentious\" has become even more controversial.  In late December, a Discogs.com forum member uncovered a song called \"Pobjenicki Cocek\" performed by Blehorkestar Bakija Bakic, from the Vranje region in southern Serbia, and claimed that in it lay the key to \"Fizheuer\". The following week, when the Italian blog Batteria Ricaricabile posted the song, originally released on a 1999 compilation called Road of the Gypsies, the extent of Villalobos' borrowing became clear. The chugging refrain is taken from a moment where Blehorkestar Bakija Bakic's song pauses and marks time; with little percussion and no lead voices to get in the way, it's ripe for looping. The bright, bold melodic passage that leads Fitzheuer to its dizzying heights, meanwhile, comes straight from the intro to \"Pobjednicki Cocek\" dragged, dropped and left virtually unadulterated. \"Fitzheuer Zieheuer\", in other words, is basically a remix, if not an edit.  But the great question remains: So what? Leave the copyright questions to Lawrence Lessig; \"Fitzheuer Zieheuer\" remains a force to be reckoned with, not in spite of but because of its audacity. If Villalobos hadn't released a 35minute track under his own name, somebody would have had to do it for him; better still that he did so with this brainbungeeing, hairraising, tortoiseandhare race between call and response, downbeat and delay, that livens up any DJ set like a bolt from the blue.  \"Fitzheuer Zieheuer\" didn't need to be 37 minutes long; Villalobos could have made exactly the same point in 18, 15, hell, 10 minutes, and nobody would have felt shortchanged. But I'm glad he did it this way; if nothing else, the track offers a window into his creative process, where production and marathon DJ sessions merge in the form of 20 or 30minute drum tracks that he records to CDR and plays out layered with other records. I suspect that that's how \"Fitzheuer\" got its start, as a privatepress thing that Playhouse decided to make public. If I have any complaint about the release, it is perhaps paradoxically that they decided to release it at all. Heard in the context of one of Villalobos' epic sets, at lordknows o'clock and with the crowd gone completely unhinged, a track like \"Fitzheuer\" is unbelievably special; the way those horns leaven the air after too many electrohouse synths, they're like sorbet. Or better still, grappa.  But debated to death on the message boards, ruling the charts at Beatport, and blasted at the most inopportune moments by warmup knobs desperate to appear au courant, the tune wears out its welcome awfully quickly; its ubiquity works against it. I'm glad that Playhouse decided to share \"Fitzheuer\" with the world; love it or hate it, the discourse it generates enriches dance music. But with filesharing sites like YouSendIt and Sendspace making a superstar's turn at Fabric or Panoramabar accessible to all and sundry, I wonder if Villalobos' privatepress product needed to be taken public at all. Leaked online, it would have generated all the intrigue and rumor that it has anyway, and spared the overly public airing, it might have retained an air of mystery. Or maybe it's just disappointing knowing where the song comes from: No one really wants to find their Holy Grail, especially so soon after even being tipped off as to its very existence.  "}