{"label":" Tempa","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9647/homepage_large.7adb135b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Various Artists","title":"The Roots of Dubstep","text":" 2006 was dubstep's year. As chronicled over 18 months worth of Pitchfork contributor Martin Clark's \"Month In Grime/Dubstep\" column, the underground London scene that had spun off from UK garage around 2002 finally came into its own, suddenly championed everywhere from The Wire to the BBC to German minimal techno jocks to old school IDM heads to, well, Pitchfork. Most Americans, of course, weren't hitting up Travelocity to queue for the bodychoked DMZ allnight parties (unless you happen to live in New York, your average house club probably hasn't picked up on the genre just yet) or setting their dial for Mary Anne Hobbs' radio shows. But a string of 2006 albums from Burial, Various Productions, Boxcutter, Kode 9 and Space Ape, as well as less heralded artists such as Skream, Distance, and Benga allowed curious Yanks who weren't trawling mp3 blogs for ripped DJ sets to test drive an unfamiliar sound. I have a curious relationship with dubstep as a huge Anglophilic UK garage fan around the turn of the millennium whose interest waned the further dubstep got from garage's upbeat, intricate rhythm programming and radioready r&b hooks. For a while in the depths of 2004, it felt like I would never have speakers with enough bass or smoke enough weed to ever get anything out of this strippeddown music. And while the genre is finally producing enough interesting records to justify its newfound rep, it bugged me that the records leading to dubstep were still so obscure and unavailable. As chronicled on Steve \"Kode 9\" Goodman's (now sadly offline) Hyperdub webzine between 1999 and 2003, it was UK garage's \"descent into darkness\" rather than its \"ignominious arrival,\" to paraphrase Simon Reynolds on dark and/or \"artistic\" jungle, that was so interesting. So praise to Mr. Clark and his partner Ammunition for compiling The Roots of Dubstep, a thoroughasoneCDcanbe history of dubstep's baby steps. Like the pretty young things they were, these records skipped where later dubstep can stomp: They were still trying to make dancers move rather than \"meditate on bass weight\" as dubstep pioneers Digital Mystikz would say even as tracks like ElB's \"Express\" and labels like Ghost were bringing a ghostlike reggae vibe to the rave. These were folks who used to make jungle, or kids who just went to jungle clubs, and while they got off on the winding tempo of UK garage, their goal wasn't to land a remix on the next S Club 7 single. Instead, as related by Clark in the liner notes to Roots, ElB and his boys were enthralled by the deadly deep subbass and serious grooves of the Metalheadz label, and they brought that headnodding intensity into the garage. Dubstep officially arrived in 2002 with Horsepower Productions' epochal In Fine Style LP, and the Horsepower tracks are the best thing on Roots. Records like \"Gorgon Sound\" were near perfect mixtures of bubbling garage grooves, the haunted reverb of Germanic dubtechno like Maurizio, house divas, and reggae samples vibrating through the echo chamber. And Horsepower records have probably the best bass sound of any records released in the new millennium.  It's clear just to listen that a young South London producer named Burial had his wig seriously flipped by the days of Horsepower. But those who've fallen in love with the atmospheric grooves of the Burial album or Various Productions' bleak folk tweaks on the dubstep sound may still end up turned off by these experiments in snare timbre and bass sculpting. By the time we finish the compilation at Digital Mystikz's 2003 \"Pathwayz\", the heavy, repetitive thwackthwackthwack of the drums three zombie kicks followed by two snare cracks, looped with a vocal chant and a sour, grimelike synth line that characterized the genre's lean years is as spare and dry as the darkest modern techno. Little surprise that producers like Ricardo Villalobos whose \"Fizheuer Zieheuer\" seems to skank as much as it oompahs has begun pimping out his own minimal DJ sets with dubstep tunes. (As someone who's longed for a hookup between Perlonstyle microhouse and the lowend of garage/dubstep for years, I want this marriage consummated ASAP.)  But even the warmer, earlier records the incandescent organs on Steve Gurley's \"Hotboys (Dub)\", the faded brass and triphop crackle of Phturistix's \"551 Blues\" on Roots do little more than swing. Their garagey offbeats are perhaps crisper and lighter than the brutal thump of the later halfstep sound, but dubstep is still a genre where fans cream themselves over how a producer drops his kick drum in a bar or what sort of filters the bassline gets pushed through. On \"Snakecharmer\", producer Menta ditches traditional drums for an absurdly intricate handclap groove that's fleshed out with a rimshot of tabla, a shaker, a cicada rustle, a twinkle of chimes, a leopard's roar, and twonote bass that dips like an airplane losing cabin pressure. \"Red\", on the other hand, is perhaps the birthplace of a genre built wobbly basslines, a froggy, warbling thing that actually plays off Artwork's twisting snares rather than simply growling beneath the beats. Listening to tracks like the way funky backandforth of DJ Abstract's \"Touch\", it's hard not to wish for a little more of this oldschool complexity, disguised as a simple groove, in current dubstep. The hot new jacks might want to take a closer look back at their Roots.  "}