{"label":" MT6","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9648/homepage_large.3692987c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Human Host","title":"Exploding Demon","text":" Baltimore is a weird place. This past summer the city set aside about 500 grand for a new slogan designed to get tourists to blow their vacation time (and money) at unique hot spots like the P.F. Chang's in the Inner Harbor, only to come up with \"Get in on It\", the kind of sosadit'sfunny boner a junior ad exec could scribble on a cocktail napkin between lines of coke. Meanwhile, junkies were purportedly knocking down lampposts in order to sell them for scrap. (And you thought that was just The Wire writers being clever.) Still, that's the kind of cosmically ROFLicious juxtaposition that keeps me here. (Philly came up with \"Philly's More Fun When You Sleep Over\", which, while sad, isn't quite sad in the same way. Also, my hometown junkies aren't quite as ingenious or industrious.) The other thing that keeps me here is the music scene. When outoftown friends ask what's going on here, the best I can fumble is \"well, we have a really strong urban scene... and a lot of weirdos.\" But please do not read \"weirdos\" as an insult. It's the weirdos that make life worth living. One of the last times I saw Human Host, a rather burly fellow not a member of the band was so moved by the music, one assumes, that he proceeded to strip down to his sweaty underpants and bore through the slackjawed crowd like a pale, hairy bull. Eventually his clothes had to be retrieved from the loft's overhead pipes. The band continued to declaim their cryptic vocals and punch at their creaking synthesizers, lost in the music, neither emboldened nor disturbed by the jiggling manflesh. Or, as a coworker once put it, \"sometimes you see them and it's like oh my god and other times you see them and it's like what the fuck?\" If, however, you need a more concrete musical comparison, the ol' rock critical \"this meets that\" thing, then for Exploding Demon's best track think Excepter. On the long, hypnotic \"Alien Fire/Birth Cycle\", recorded live, the Host shares the Brooklyn band's love for the psychedelic qualities of lots of echo and reverb, vocals buried in the mix until they're another undulating component of the overall swaying noise, and the kind of inthemoment mixology that hazily blurs one section of a song into the next, like sitting in the driveway after an overnight drive and your tiredass mind not quite being able to remember how you actually managed to get back home. The track begins as a slow, distorted keyboard drone, anguished screams drawn out into low moans and mumbles. It ends, broken up only by a brief burst of applause, nearly 14 minutes later with a drum machine that sounds like a xylophone, some eldritch organ notes, and stoner guitar peals floating through the air like we're reclining on the set of a throwrug strewn drug den in an exploitation flick from Turkey circa 1974.  Pretty awesome. Except nothing else here sounds remotely like \"Alien Fire/Birth Cycle\"; Exploding Demon is Human Host's attempt to give you everything you might get at one of their random function live shows, the oh my god/what the fuck? factor without the dudes in tighty whiteys. Tracks like \"The Tomb of Science\" are a bit like Men's Recovery Project in their Bolides Over Basra \"concept\" phase: farty karaoke keyboards, preset beats, and warbled lyrics like \"Crust of the ism/ Plucked off trembling cocks/ The alert thumping flesh makes machine pits ripe.\" Purposefully \"fucked up\" but not obnoxious with it. \"Six Realms\" and \"Demonic Remnants\", on the other hand, are almost traditional guitarbassdrums rock songs, with slow, sagging bass parts and grinding guitars; the latter's dank, manhole atmosphere and trudging drums sound a bit a like the Dead C at their forlorn best. The Host are doing something unique and at the same time very Baltimore, where they're just one of a few dozen bands pursuing some personal idiomatic weirdness. We could still do with a reduction in the murder rate, but there are worse places to live than one where idiosyncrasy is the rule.  "}