{"label":" Vice / Because / Ed Banger","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9651/homepage_large.f3d6918d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Ed Rec Vol. 1","text":" Apart from belonging to a proud tradition of dance music punning (Ed Rush, Ed Case and surely someone has snapped up \"Ed Wound\" or \"Ed Trauma\" by now?), French dance label Ed Banger's nom de plume says a lot about their sonic sensibilities: what better label home for Justice's crude but thrilling noisy house anthem \"Waters of Nazareth\"? But it also says a lot about their sense of self. Compared to the hyperstylisation of Kitsuné or Modular, the label's compatriots in the new French house/nu rave movement, Ed Banger can seem a bit scruffy and, well, simple, enthusiastically embracing a mindless hysteria which their friends prefer to present in quotation marks. Not that it's the dancefloor which Ed Banger's hysteria necessarily aims for: As well as the de rigeur rock signifiers, the material on its first retrospective is distingushed by its infatuation with (mostly old skool) hiphop, from Uffie's endoftheline devolution of Fannypack and Princess Superstar, to Krazy Baldheads' glitchladen rap, to Busy P's cutup cubist booty. Filtered through the unabashed plasticity and stuttering zaniness of the label's sonic approach, hiphop's primary role is to provide an ironic balancing, to be a byword for unmediated and organic rawness amidst so much carefully programmed insanity. It's a shame, though, that the results usually cleave closer to Kid 606 demolishing NWA than Daft Punk's \"Oh Yeah\": noone seems to have told these guys about the value of just running with a good groove. On the other hand, the pall of 1999 which hangs over so much of the selfconscious production trickery here is ultimately kind of endearing, suggesting a goofy lack of good taste or timing. Most ridiculously, Vicarious Bliss' \"Theme From Vicarious Bliss\" sounds like the Bomfunk MCs remixing Third Eye Blind this is not exactly a bad thing, but it's hardly a career move you can really get behind. So it's not surprising that for their remix Justice manage to conjure up a vision of jaded rock cool that wasn't there in the original a bit disappointing that it's exactly the sort of halfhearted rockdance fusion the label otherwise scores points for avoiding.  Somewhere between the dance, the rock, the IDM, and the hiphop, Ed Banger's artists occasionally and perhaps unwittingly stumble across pop, and it's these inspired accidents that make Ed Rec Vol. 1 halfway listenable. Para One's remix of DJ Mehdi's \"I Am Somebody\" is a dog's breakfast of Prince and hiphouse, but it's indecisive messiness is also the key to its appeal, sounding like the leftovers from an aborted Basement Jaxx/Daft Punk collaboration that ended in tears. The pop in Ed Banger material exists on a sonic rather than conceptual level: as a song, Uffie's \"Pop the Glock\" is a totally unnecessary addition to the modern pantheon of sneering fauxMC triviality, but it's almost entirely redeemed by the extended Cherlike autotune harmonies that hover about Uffie's (intermittently torturous) vocals like a sickly aura.  Ed Banger's best performer is SebastiAn, who contributes bleepy, glitchy EBM disco filtered through a production sensibility that's three parts Depeche Mode circa Black Celebration and one part Autechre, which is the same as being all parts Nine Inch Nails remixes. This is a reason to like him, in case you're wondering: He may be as enamoured with midrange blare as Justice, but you get the impression that SebastiAn's aggression is a bit fey and girlish too, like he's hoping you'll notice how prettily he grits his teeth. On the whole, his labelmates could afford to be more girlish: currently their wideeyed ambition is held in check by a certain air of male jocularity, which reveals itself in the wild mood swings between stomping noise and overly fussy digital editing. Noone here is interested in sounding polished or professional, which is fine, but I could wish for a slightly more feminine touch at times (and no, Uffie doesn't count). Like, how much better would anthems like \"Waters of Nazareth\" be with a diva squealing over the top? Give me that over another monotone rockstar performance anyday.  "}