{"label":" Modular","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9660/homepage_large.51382041.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"New Young Pony Club","title":"New Young Pony Club EP","text":"  Only in the flipbookgenre environment of modern music could it be possible for the recent resurgence of dancepunk, 2003's king indie trend, to be considered a revival. But with a run of surprisingly solid followup albums from the Rapture, LCD Soundsystem, and !!! and an infusion of new blood from the European newrave scene (ignoring the fact that the sound is neither \"new\" nor \"rave\"), the beats vs. jaggedguitar formula appears to be wriggling free from the backlash. It remains to be seen whether the second time around this decade is going to be any more sustainable than the first fling, but one critical strategic move will certainly help the effort: This time, they're inviting girls. It wasn't really remarked upon at the time, but dancepunk's first wave ended up looking in retrospect like quite the sausage party. Newer acts Crystal Castles and Revl9n are already remedying this omission, but the best doubleX chromosome entry thus far is the quick selftitled EP from New Young Pony Club, the London band that features get this three actual girls! Their first single \"Ice Cream\", already a CNN morningshow banger thanks to a (no fault of NYPC) particularly irritating Intel campaign, immediately draws attention to this closing gender gap, allowing basically the same combination of elements to sound fresh all over again. You see, for all of dancepunk's clubmusic aspirations, it may have failed by whiffing on the most frequent topic of dancemusic discussion: sex. It's no surprise that a scene dominated by heterosexual men would rather spend its time talking about politics or record collections or (ick) music criticism rather than getting it on; in fact, this impotency is probably as defining an \"indie\" characteristic as fuzzy guitars. Putting gender politics aside to avoid taxing my word limit, the infusion of women into the scene will likely serve to put the sensuality back into the sound, a feat handily carried out by \"Ice Cream\", which saucily treats intercourse like a makeyourownsundae bar. With a strangely accented voice that's part Flying Lizards and part Debbie Harry rapping, Tahita Bulmer is welcome respite from the lecturesinging that has dominated the genre's formula thus far.  Of course, adult content doesn't fully explain the appeal of New Young Pony Club. Like a lot of their secondwave brethren, NYPC sound less like a punk band dabbling in synthesizers and hihat than a dance act employing rock tropes when appropriate, adding danger and sloppiness to shake some life into the programming. \"Get Dancey\" hits this balance perfectly, with drums that stroll the border between live and looped, and jagged guitar deployed in punchy bursts. The unrelenting beat of \"Descend\" is even blueprinted more like a club track than a rock song; there are no versechorus peaks and valleys, just a marching groove that doesn't quit while Bulmer rotates through meaningless mantras.  These are the kind of dancemusic maneuvers that most dancepunk groups rely on remixers to summon, so it's to New Young Pony Club's credit that their originals preempt any easy discoedit makeover. The three remixes of \"Ice Cream\" included here are therefore allowed to go to more interesting places, though the Comets remix is content to merely amplify the shimmery keyboards, while Van She's turn imagines a DFA1979 cover version. Only DJ Mehdi's remix, which takes the Flying Lizards connection a bit too literally in settling for presets and slot machines, is able to ice down the original's intensity to any degree, but for the most part \"Ice Cream\" proves hardy enough to survive the reconstruction derby.  Few songs are good enough to turn up four times on a sixsong record though, and the halforiginal/halfremix structure of this EP keeps it grounded as little more than a teasertrailer for things to come. As such, it may also be deceptive; scores of dancepunk bands in the early aughts were able to stir up buzz with one or two hot tracks, but most couldn't sustain that excitement over a fulllength or a subsequent single. Fortunately, this EP suggests New Young Pony Club can tweak the formula just enough that they may have found a way out of the patriarchal postpunk/mutantdisco retread rut, a development that could make 2007 less a revival and 2003 more of a prelim.  "}