{"label":" Brah","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9662/homepage_large.ae349225.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Nurse & Soldier","title":"Marginalia","text":"  Nurse & Soldier has the potential to be too casual and too indulgent. It is, after all, a side project between Oneida frontman Bobby Matador and his longtime partner Erica Fletcher, and their debut release is on the main band's own vanity imprint, Brah. I'd understand if the incestuous nature of the project was designed to ward off certain potential listeners, those that might predetermine this release as a footnote to be skipped when Oneida's own catalog with its double discs and sidelong tracks is pretty daunting. If you were to hear the first two or three tracks from Marginalia not the most encouraging title and stop there, those potential fears might even be confirmed. \"Green Tea\" is a bluesy organ drone, with a slight touch of dissonance like an update of the Exorcist theme running through the track's background, but it establishes more of a drumless, hazy atmosphere without congealing into a hook or a song. \"Capture the Flag\" gurgles with some actual percussion and clearer vocals from Fletcher, all drowned out by sheets of distortion and limp with hesitancy. \"In the Dark\" is catchier, certainly, but its simple rhymes sound glib and lazy over its basic melody. But Marginalia is unusual in that it actually gets better the further you get into the record. Certainly, the fidelities are low and the tempos relaxed, and the fauxquilted album art further underlines the gentle, easygoing nature of the music therein. Still, the songs get sharper as the album progresses, and the group's particular talents announce themselves. \"Back in Yr Corner\" has a subtle tabletapping percussion and gorgeous layering of piercing vintage organ tones, and \"Brought Up Too Soon\" is an improvement upon the earlier \"In the Dark\", still simple but more gradual with its buildup and stronger in melody.  There's some similarity to Sunset Rubdown here, at least in the spartan nature of recordings like \"Wrong\", with its faraway perpetual reverb on the guitar and nostalgic bent of its simple progression. These tracks are warm and inviting, however, where Spencer Krug's are cagey and stark. \"What You Wanted\" continues in that vein in precious minorkey folk plucking and saccharine selfharmonizing from Fletcher. \"Lies & Alterations\" piles on something like a wall of guitars, but its more like a lapping low tide of distortion under Fletcher's brassy singing, and they're suddenly sounding like a band instead of a project.  By the time you reach the prideswollen vocals on closing track \"Her Higher Education\", adorned with dizzying amounts of tiny embellishments like rattling calliope percussion and horn fanfare, you'll be pissed the album's over just when it's hitting its potential. It's almost as if they recorded Marginalia as they went along, one track after another, off the top their heads. All that just adds to the quaint homespun vibe of the group; it might sound lazy on paper, but the unpretentious nature of the presentation actually adds to the music, making Nurse & Soldier like a scrapbook or photo album that's far too well kept to be a curio. Talented hands have to stay busy somehow.  "}