{"label":" Hefty","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9669/homepage_large.c4fc868d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"Radicalfashion","title":"Odori","text":"  When I woke up early this morning, it was still dark, but I could see that snow had begun to settle on the woods (a rarity in postglobal warming North Carolina). My first halfasleep thought was of Radicalfashion's \"Suna\" a perfect complement, with its crystalline piano keys, to a crisp and snowy day. My second thought, irrationally, was that my Radicalfashion deadline had summoned the unexpected snow. Japanese composer Hirohito Ihara (also unfortunately known as Radicalfashion) uses a concise sound palette mostly minimal electronic textures and flowing piano to make music that charges whatever space it inhabits with eerie significance. This is strange, beautiful music, with few interpretative cues: The delicate trickles and singing reverberations of \"Opening\" evokes metal and water, while the sprightly tones of \"Ballet\" straddle a compelling rhythm track that defies identification beyond something rolling, tearing, and clattering. \"Shunpoudoh\" and \"Photo Dynasmo\" both use the human voice as their rhythmic foundation, the former kneading clipped, contrasting syllables into its thwacking bounce, the latter threading sinister vowels between anxious piano phrases. It's a small leap from believing that a record can alter one's perception to believing that it can alter the physical world, and in the dream space Odori inhabits, there's no difference. It may sound obscure to say so, but it's really impossible to do the record justice without mentioning its uncanny emulation of dreams, where meaning is felt but unnamed, backward logic prevails, and halfformed apparitions swirl. The imagery is so spectral, and the movement of Ihara's compositions so intuitive, that Odori feels purely subconscious.  \"Shousetsu\", with its ethereal piano nocturne and corporeal rhythm track (a gasp, a gulp, and the clipped chirp of medical equipment) treads the thin line between reality and imagination. Ihara, who's fond of the epiphany and works it into most of his compositions, gets in a great one here, when the piano finally breaks free of the claustrophobic rhythm and soars. And there's another on Carl Stone collaboration \"Thousand\" in the bright, clear tone that sporadically bursts through the springwound mix.  The other reason that I immediately equated the snow with Radicalfashion is the associative link between the two. We could talk about the snow's quietude, its serene chill, its atmospherefilling quality, its delicate grace, or its dreamy childhood nostalgia Odori has all these qualities, but diverges from them on tracks like \"TohKoh\", whose blossoming squiggles are more fire than ice. But it never deviates from its most striking parallel with snow: the sense of magical transformation it invokes. The semilucid state of wonder the predawn dusting inspired in me was identical to how I felt the first time I heard this record the feeling of passing through the mundane and into the marvelous without warning.  "}