{"label":" Rhino / WEA","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9670/homepage_large.f98d38fa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"The Faces","title":"The Definitive Rock Collection","text":" The difference between casual and serious Faces fans is a matter of pints, not passion. A supergroup before their time, the Faces stumbled onto something special (with emphasis on \"stumbled\") ragged, defiant bluesrock that transformed drunk and sloppy into unlikely compliments. Maybe that explains why the musical tree they planted has borne equally sweet and rotten fruit. For every Replacements, there's a Black Crowes. For every DriveBy Truckers, Wilco, or Alejandro Escovedo, there's been... a Lenny Kravitz. And yet nothing's diminished the shortlived group's status as rock royalty. Heck, even erstwhile rivals the Rolling Stones were fans, which is why they couldn't wait to snag Ronnie Wood for their own ranks. The same goes for the Who, who quickly turned to Kenney Jones to replace the irreplaceable Keith Moon. The Faces' protoMod psychpop will always be more hip than either, but their prolific pace and sheer vigor established a legacy all its own. The Faces formed in 1969, but had burnt out by 1975, managing just four studio albums. The previous singledisc anthology, Good Boys... When They're Asleep, pretty much got it right, but left out a few musts, while 2004's fourdisc box, Five Guys Walk Into a Bar, was far from an ideal introduction, padding the group's studio output with BBC sessions, live tracks, singles, and other arcana. So the new 2xCD bestof, generically titled The Definitive Rock Collection, serves as a nice compromise, featuring all the familiar nuggets (\"Stay With Me\", Ronnie Lane's wistful \"Debris\" and its cousin \"Glad and Sorry\", Wes Anderson fave \"Ooh La La\"), along with a bunch of the good stuff the singledisc set skipped (\"Maybe I'm Amazed\" and \"(I Know) I'm Losing You\" from Stewart's Every Picture Tells a Story).  The songs are muscular, though rarely as melodically refined as many of the band's followers have managed, and occasionally the group's ability to make it all sound so effortless makes you wish they had, you know, put a little more effort into it. But at the least, The Definitive Rock Collection reminds us there was a time when Stewart's rasp was a powerful thing the rough but malleable antithesis of slick rock and pop.  Speaking of which, it may be impossible for Faces newcomers to hear the group without also thinking about Stewart's attendant rise as a smug solo star. And it's equally impossible to think of Rod Stewart's attendant rise as a solo star without thinking about all the shitty music he's subjected the world to over the course of the past several decades. But back in the Faces, Rod didn't need to ask if ya thought he's sexy; he just knew it, and the band made music that perfectly matched his cockofthewalk confidence.  "}