{"label":" Drag City","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9675/homepage_large.b7d58257.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Ghost","title":"In Stormy Nights","text":"  Masaki Batoh, vocalist and spiritual leader of Japan's enigmatic collective Ghost, has a stated aversion to such mundane activities as recording and touring, with his interest in music almost entirely limited to the moment of creation itself. As a consequence, the increasingly infrequent arrival of a new Ghost album has begun to feel like a monumental event. Such is certainly the case for In Stormy Nights, the group's first collection of new material since its majestic 2004 progepic Hypnotic Underworld. Throughout their mysterysteeped, two decadeplus career, the members of Ghost have steadfastly refused to acknowledge divisions between their seemingly incompatible styles of psychfolk, Krautrock, free jazz, and a limitless variety of indigenous Japanese and world musics. On their latest tablet from the mount, Batoh and a core sextet that includes veteran psych guitarist Michio Kurihara, multiinstrumentalist Kazuo Ogino, and percussionist Junzo Tateiwa have again decided to move their sound outward in all directions at once. In Stormy Night progresses with a solemn yet utterly savage authority, with its turbulent mixture of organic stonerfolk, cumbrous experimentation and nearmartial rhythms sounding like an invocation to counteract the governmentled turmoil of its times. The album's cornerstone and the piece most likely to divide opinions is the selfcontained 28minute behemoth \"Hemicyclic Anthelion\". Painstakingly edited by Batoh from a number of live recordings, this track appears in essence to be a double measure of free improvisation, first in the live performances themselves and later at the mixing desk. Due to its rather episodic construction, at points the piece can recall the more meditative moments of The Faust Tapes, but Ghost is also careful to allow the music to unfold as if an evolving, realtime performance. Underpinned by a recurring pattern of feedback and amp distortion, \"Hemicyclic Anthelion\" travels patiently through interludes of pastoral folk and dusky, smokedglass jazz, while still allowing Kurihara ample space to rip off several radiant acid guitar leads. At points it seems Batoh has made some curious editing decisions: There are several quiet stretches of virtual inactivity as the musicians appear a little too content to dawdle within their timecollapsing idyll.  Perhaps as a corrective, Ghost immediately follows \"Anthelion\" with a trio of tympanidriven rock songs that are as furiously precise and martial as the preceding epic is diffuse. \"Water Door Yellow Gate\" layers its taut riff with orchestral percussion, analog synth, and a spectral backing choir, while Batoh gravely intones his nightmarish visions of a scorchedearth no man's land. Even wilder and more massive is the group's ferocious cover of the tribal anthem \"Caledonia\", originally recorded by ESP Disk pagans Cromagnon. Given the rampant experimentation elsewhere on the album, Ghost give this cover a surprisingly faithful and reverent treatment, with Batoh delivering what is likely his most shredded vocal on record beneath a feverish torrent of Celtic flutes and recorder drones.  Bookending all this chaotic activity are two of Ghost's loveliest avantfolk tracks to date, \"Motherly Bluster\" and the stunning closer \"Grisaille\". Carried gently aloft by its gorgeous arrangement of medieval strings, flutes, and yet another skymelting Kurihara solo, \"Grisaille\" is further evidence that Ghost can still return to the exquisite psychfolk territories of past triumphs like 1999's Snuffbox Immanence any time they so choose. And though In Stormy Nights with its numerous false leads, overthetop presentation and undisguised selfindulgence can hardly be said to be a perfect work, one has to admire and celebrate Ghost's determination never to step in the same river twice.  "}