{"label":" 429","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9676/homepage_large.57888e28.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Amanda Petrusich","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Endless Highway: The Music of the Band","text":" Canadian rompers the Band have managed to eschew broad rock'n'roll canonization: They're rarely mentioned in the same breath as the holy triumvirate (Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, the Who), even though they've directly influenced scads of contemporary artists, and starred in one of the finest concert films of all time, 1978's Martin Scorsesehelmed The Last Waltz. Somehow, the Band continue to be most gossipedabout for their pivotal role in Bob Dylan's famed acousticelectric trajectory: In 1967, Dylan invited his touring band (then nameless, but occasionally going by the Hawks or the Crackers or the Honkies) to record a series of demos in the basement of a house in Woodstock, New York. The resulting double LP, which wasn't officially released until 1975, was dubbed \"the greatest album in the history of popular American music\" by The New York Times, inspired a fulllength book by Greil Marcus, and fed perfectly into Dylan's everaggrandizing mythology. Despite loads of critical acclaim for their solo debut, 1968's excellent Music From Big Pink, The Band never quite wiggled out from Dylan's considerable shadow, or transcended the legendary intrigue of The Basement Tapes.Endless Highway: The Music of the Band attempts to rectify the Band's littlebrother standing, recruiting artists like the Allman Brothers, My Morning Jacket, Death Cab for Cutie, Roseanne Cash, and Lee Ann Womack to celebrate the Band's discography, on the 30th anniversary of the filming of The Last Waltz. It's hard to think of a single tribute album that's endured as more than a novelty, or functioned as anything more than a chance for a handful of contemporary artists to pay drooling homage to a musical hero, and, unfortunately, Endless Highway is no different.  The record opens with Guster (including, weirdly, Ray LaMontagne on harmonica) performing \"This Wheel's on Fire\", a track cowritten by Dylan with bassist/guitarist Rick Danko. Despite some appropriatelyjangly banjo strums, Guster's rendition is dopey and forgettable; Bruce Hornsby's slick, smarmy take on \"King Harvest\" is no more forgivable (to make things worse, Hornsby sounds like he's doing some kind of perverse Dave Matthews vocal impression). Gomez's skronky swipe at \"Up on Cripple Creek\" banks on preserving the hustle of the original; Jack Johnson's spare \"I Shall Be Released\" is stoic, if otherwise uninspired.  There are a handful of compelling contributions: My Morning Jacket's \"It Makes No Difference\" (which was recorded, appropriately, at Levon Helm's studio in Woodstock) feels organic and raw, riddled with perfect guitar wankery and Jim James' otherworldly yowls. The Allman Brothers' live cover of \"The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down\" feels custommade for their set; the Band has precious few actual ties to the American south (although Helm was born in Arkansas), and, unsurprisingly, the Allmans' Georgia wails suit the song which details the fall of Richmond to the Union Army preposterously well. Ben Gibbard's habit of cooing about arcane American spaces makes \"Rockin' Chair\" an oddly successful fit for Death Cab for Cutie, and their closing rendition is sweet and loose. But ultimately, even though Endless Highway is a noble effort, nothing here truly showcases the Band's songwriting any better than the Band itself, and the artists involved could do better work by just imploring their fans to pick up The Band or Music From Big Pink.  "}