{"label":" Ever","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9685/homepage_large.dcbbae24.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"Cyann & Ben","title":"Sweet Beliefs","text":"  The first album from French foursome Cyann & Ben since the implosion of their former label Gooom the label that first introduced us to M83 creates an unusual atmosphere: It's pensive, sad, pretty music that only lets loose reluctantly yet somehow remains true to the band's pastoral roots while raising the faders on organs, Chamberlains, and electric guitars. It's music best described in terms of the images it evokes rain on a narrow dirt road hugged by oldgrowth forest, footage of small towns in the Ardenne with the color drained out, or a body by a river bank, all cut by the occasional stab of futuristic laser light. Though overriding texture is what roped me into this album in the first place, the subtler details are what kept me listening especially on the long and winding title track, which begins in a completely different place from where it ends. The song opens on a steady piano part touched by sliding space noises, with Cyann's vocals only halfexposed in the mix. Then, just under two minutes in, the texture shifts and a kettledrum brings sudden gravity to the song. In the ensuing passage, it falls to earth, ultimately building to a big, ominous guitar riff that carries the song to a forbiddingly icy conclusion. The song that follows, \"In Union With...\", picks up on that fractured note and runs with it, steadfastly avoiding rhythm while guitar feedback, humming organ, and cymbals coalesce into a ramshackle backing for Ben's plaintive croon. Truthfully, it goes on way too long, but it's a great example of the album's balanced sequencing as it flows right into the rhythmic immediacy of \"Guilty\", the only track on the record that's actually too short. I could've listened to the pulsating, buzzy intro develop for at least another minute before the vocals cut in with questionably enunciated English lyrics. (Dear bands, do not be afraid to sing in your native language.)  It may be due in part to their continental provenance, but there are lots of moments that make me thankful that progrock has come out of the critical shadows these last few years. The best of these comes in the second half of \"Let It Play\", where the band finally just flies off the handle, latching onto a flute riff that springboards to a freakout soaked in choir Mellotron and highlighted by guitars that sound like injured seagulls.  If Cyann & Ben could've spread the intensity of that passage around the album a little more, it might've been more satisfying on the whole, but there are songs that don't totally click. The baroque folk of  \"Recurring\", for example, just never gets off the ground, despite spending more than five minutes trying to launch. At its best, though, Sweet Beliefs possesses a sweeping beauty, placeing Cyann & Ben squarely in a lineage that stretches back through Stereolab and Pink Floyd.  "}