{"label":" Elektra / Rhino","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9687/homepage_large.276b6a3c.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stephen M. Deusner","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Forever Changing: The Golden Age of Elektra Records 1963-1973","text":"  Hey kids, what are you doing with your college education? When they were students at Annapolis's St. John's College, Jac Holzman and Paul Rickholt cofounded Elektra Records in their dorm room. They specialized in folk music, partly because it was inexpensive to record and partly because in 1950 folk had a sizable audience. It was a cult genre growing into a popular one. In addition to releasing numerous collections of ethnic folk music, Elektra recorded the likes of Theodore Bikel, Josh White, and the New York Jazz Quartet, and competed with Vanguard and Verve Records. But during the 1960s, the label signed betterknown artists such as Judy Collins, Phil Ochs, and Tom Rush, then expanded its roster to include jazz, blues, bluegrass, blues rock, country rock, psych rock, lite rock, and various combinations of each. It even spun off an imprint, Nonesuch Explorer Series, specializing in world music. Elektra released albums by Love, the Doors, the Paul Butterfield Blues Band, Bread, Carly Simon, the Lovin' Spoonful, Tim Buckley, and even Eric Clapton & Powerhouse, which not only cemented its reputation as a top label for a variety of music, but also helped to shape and define popular music as a whole. As its name suggests, the 5xCD set Forever Changing: The Golden Age of Elektra Records 19631973 chronicles the label's heyday; the emphasis rests on its calculated eclecticism rather than dry chronology. Listening to these discs is not unlike flipping through a museum's permanent collection catalog: It gives a larger context for what was going on at the time, but allows you to appreciate the music on its own formal merits. Released in the UK last year and finally making it to the States, the set includes all the artists you'd expect, as well as a generous serving of lesserknown signees who make the set seem like one great, new discovery (Judy Henske, Pat Kilroy) after another (Eclection, Earth Opera). The first discs, obviously, are heavy with folk music, or, to quote Elektra producer Paul Rothchild's liner blurb, \"root American music as performed by new urban interpreters.\" While Elektra artists Phil Ochs, Tom Paxton, Fred Neil, the Incredible String Band, Judy Collins, and Tom Rush were categorized broadly under folk, these artists covered a range of territory: political songs like Ochs's triumphantly dissident \"I Ain't Marching Anymore\" and Richard Fariña's \"House UnAmerican Blues Activity Dream\" rub shoulders with the personal ruminations of Judy Collins' \"Both Sides Now\" and the bluesy disaffection of Henske's powerful \"High Flying Bird\". Forever Changing also incorporates other \"root American music,\" like the bluegrass of the Dillards, the revival blues of \"Spider\" John Koerner, the careful compositions of guitarist Dick Rosmini, and the jugband jazz of the Even Dozen Jug Band. Amazingly, no artist on Forever Changing sounds like a token act.  Elektra's crucial signing, however, was Love. The legendary L.A. band gave the label its first charting single, \"My Little Red Book\" (which kicks off Disc 2), and allowed Holzman entrée into the local scene. According to the liners, Love frontman Arthur Lee persuaded Holzman to see the Doors, whom Elektra signed shortly thereafter. Love and the Doors each get three tracks, including the former's \"Alone Again Or\" and the latter's \"Five to One\" (which, in this context, is enough to reverse my low opinion on the Doors), and they proved to be gateway acts into the rock world. Afterwards, Elektra signed MC5 (whose \"Kick Out the Jams\" is included), the Stooges, and Queen, as well as lesserknowns like Eclection and Rhinoceros. Despite these successes, the label continued to emphasize folk, which put it at the forefront of the early 70s singersongwriter movement with Bread, Harry Chapin, and Carly Simon. Forever Changing, as its name implies, presents a label that adjusted to the changing times without sacrificing its eclecticism. Fortunately, this progression from acoustic to electric doesn't determine the loosely chronological tracklist, which instead is calculated to highlight the individual songs. This is especially true on the final disc, entitled \"Another Time, Another Place\", which might best be described as a bonus. It combines obscure singles by popular acts or solid singles by obscure acts in a vaultclearing set that could itself be a primer on the label. It may not be the best disc in the set: The Beefeaters' \"Don't Be Long\" is no longer a rare single after appearing on last year's Byrds box set, and Eric Clapton & the Powerhouse's predictable take on \"Crossroads\" won't change anyone's opinion on the fading guitar god. But tracks by Eclection, Goodthunder, Leviathan, David Peel & the Lower East Side, and Jobriath not to mention Tim Buckley's otherworldly \"Wayfaring Stranger\", which completely reinvents the traditional song demonstrate how deep Elektra's roster ran.  The label's independence did not survive long into the 1970s. Elektra became part of Warner Communications and was eventually merged with Asylum Records. Holzman abdicated his position at Elektra for a heralded tenure as Warner senior vice president. The label still exists, and its E logo has graced albums by artists as diverse as the Cure, Emmylou Harris, Metallica, Björk, and, um, Jet. However, the legacy of Holzman's second decade at the head of Elektra went far beyond the range of its roster after all, contemporaneous labels were far from homogenous. Rather, Forever Changing suggests the label's greatest achievement was its intuitive presentation of all these clashing styles both as roots music with a rich tradition and as pop music with a potentially large audience.  "}