{"label":" Astralwerks / Receptors","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9688/homepage_large.d9e21002.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Various Artists","title":"8-Bit Operators: The Music of Kraftwerk","text":"  Here we have Kraftwerk songs, covered by artists whose instruments of choice are handheld gaming devices, old computers, and other assorted lores electronics. I can't help but think it represents some sort of dream realized for Ralf Hütter and Florian Schneider. Kraftwerk's relationship to technology was always complex, pointing to a bright future while remaining wary of humanity's ability to make the most of its tools. But at their most optimistic, Kraftwerk saw technology as a powerfully democratic tide, and they hoped to see a day where powerful, portable, and ultimately useful machines would be found everywhere. And here we are. It's at times striking to realize how closely these 8bit artists with their Gameboys and Commodore 64s can come to Kraftwerk's sound when so inclined. Though Kraftwerk were committed to acquiring the latest technology when it became available in the 1970s and 80s, Moore's Law means that those machines could eventually be roughly approximated for very little cost. The fidelity is especially noticeable on the material from Computer World, not surprisingly the Kraftwerk album best represented here. Though the fuzzy edges around each synth line give away the bit depth, Glomag's version of \"Pocket Calculator\" almost sounds like a 4track demo version Kraftwerk themselves might have laid down before heading in to their KlingKlang studio. \"The Robots\", even with a cutup beat informed by drumandbass, recreates the tonal proportions of the ManMachine source material with surprising accuracy. And the timbre of the snaking synth line through 8Bit Weapon's lovely version of \"Spacelab\" remains true almost to a fault.  Still, occasional overfamiliarity isn't a complaint. The songs are too good, and too well suited for this environment to mount much criticism. Some of the nonvocodered vocals are annoying, but the reverent and respectful readings generally work well. That said, the real highlights come when interpreters opt for an imaginative twist. Nullsleep's dense, lumbering, and distorted take on \"The Model\" alludes more to Big Black than Kraftwerk's elegant original. And Herbert Weixelbaum gets the prize for originality of song selection, choosing to transform \"Tanzmusik\", a delicate exercise in repetition from Ralf & Florian. The 1973 track was led by a soft, almost new age piano, but here, Weixelbaum transposes the acoustic keyboard's notes to a blocky synth that would have grated in the 70s but now scratches a peculiar wooly itch for everyone raised on videogames.  And that's a huge part of the fun in this thoroughly enjoyable, if predictable, project. As forward thinking as Kraftwerk were, they also had an enduring fondness for the pleasure of nostalgia. And the music here draws from that well, adds a twist, and finds a way to look to the future and the past at the same time. "}