{"label":" Mercury / Universal","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9689/homepage_large.84a17e0b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Dexys Midnight Runners","title":"The Projected Passion Revue","text":" A hit single is the best and worst thing that can happen to a band: As your bank balance increases, so do the chances of seeing your name appear in scrolling text on a TV screen during a TimeLife box set commercial 20 years from now. But, in America, such is the unfortunate fate of Dexys Midnight Runners, a band known on these shores for one song only: \"Come on Eileen\", a staple of pubnight and weddingparty pissups and so entrenched in the ubiquitous retro80 muzak heard in shopping malls and coffee shops that, for all you know, Dexys may as well be Dead or Alive. The onehit wonder tag can't help but feel like a slap in the face to a band that invested so much energy into developing its ideology and image. Frontman Kevin Rowland and guitarist Kevin Archer formed Dexys in 1979 around a basic principle: That when it comes to keepin'itreal purism, punk rock's got nothing on classic 1960s soul. Unlike punk, with its fashionable accoutrements and soundbite rhetoric, there's no fast track to soulmusic credibility (though a background as a Southern Baptist preacher helps), so Dexys' approach was to present the soul band as Scorsesean street gang, wielding brass instruments like they were brass knuckles. But as their rousing 1980 debut, Searching For the Young Soul Rebels, illustrated, the most honest expression of Dexys' soul reverence was that Rowland never pretended to be something he was not i.e., black. Amid Dexys' boisterous brass overtures and cavalrycharge momentum, Rowlond's shrill, anxious, androgynous voice sounding like Robert Smith before even Robert Smith started to sound like Robert Smith stood in stark relief to the gritty soul belters he idolized. But as with so many wouldbe egalitarian collectives before them, some Dexys paychecks (i.e., Rowland's) proved to be more equal than others', prompting Archer and five other Dexys to walk out shortly after Soul Rebels' release. That left Rowland and lone holdover Jimmy Paterson (trombone) to rebuild the band anew, and transform Dexys from ragtag motley crew to powerhouse soul revue. So in Dexys' lore, The Projected Passion Revue was no less momentous than Elvis' 1968 Comeback Special.  Named after the 1981 softseater concert series that introduced the eightpiece lineup to UK audiences,  The Projected Passion Revue shows Soul Rebels' sloshed, celebratory vamps giving way to a more steely discipline. In the linernote band bios (reproduced from the concerts' original program), we see the band in boxers' hoodies and listing off likes/dislikes that are comical in their contrary conservatism: We learn that drummer Seb Shelton \"doesn't believe in narcotics,\" bassist Steve Wynne \"trusts policemen,\" and that Rowland both envies and dislikes \"happy go lucky types.\"  True to type, Dexys come onstage swinging, with an instrumental raveup (\"Outlook\") that kicks into a version of Soul Rebels' \"Tell Me When My Light Turns Green\" that's so breathless, Rowland has nothing left for the chorus' high notes. Ironically, the PPR set which predates \"Come on Eileen\" by several months finds Dexys already trying to distance themselves from another hit: Their 1980 UK chartopper \"Geno\" is conspicuously absent from the set list. That's not to suggest the band was above populist gestures: Take the centerpiece cover of Otis Redding's \"Respect\", which, as obvious as it may seem now, was not the most typical move for a postpunk band to pull off in 1981. But as exhilarating as it is to hear Soul Rebels standards like \"There, There My Dear\" delivered with extra gusto, the Dexys Mk II lineup really shines on the more moody material that would later form the basis for 1982's TooRyeAy: The urgent single \"Plan B\" unites Motown and menace like a Gang of Four Tops; while nocturnal gospel ballad \"Until I Believe in My Soul\" is this set's undeniable high point, with Micky Billingham's guidinglight organ shining a path for Rowland's weepy falsetto, before kicking into a doubletime jazzbreak showcase for dueling saxophonists Paul Speare and Brian Maurice.  The Projected Passion Revue provides a timely and necessary reminder of Dexys' singular punksoul prowess, though it is geared more toward Dexys completists than curious newbies (who should still start with Young Soul Rebels). The real motivation here is to catalogue everything Dexys circa 81 recorded in chronological order, which means we begin with the \"Plan B\"/\"Soul Finger\" single before the live concert begins at track 3; the 10song performance is then appended by a somewhat redundant BBC session and both sides from the \"Show Me\" and \"Liars A to E\" singles. And for those who weren't around to experience the PPR firsthand, there's this lingering question: If Dexys 81 were such a formidable, lifechanging force as the series of overthetop linernote essays reiterate why did Rowland dismantle the lineup into a fiddlehappy Celticfolk band mere months later for TooRyeAy? But then, Rowland would probably argue, we should've seen the end coming all along after all, passion is fleeting.  "}