{"label":" Domino","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9693/homepage_large.c4efc0ea.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jessica Suarez","artist":"Benjy Ferree","title":"Leaving the Nest","text":"  In small towns like the one I was raised in, you felt bad for anyone who stayed past their graduation date. Even worse were those who'd leave only to return, signaling to everyone that yet another bigger city had stomped their ass. Maybe that's why so many people I know never left to begin with: It was just better than having to come back. Benjy Ferree was one of those who surrendered. And if \"small\" isn't exactly the foremost adjective used to describe his hometown of Washington, D.C., Ferree's attempted jump to Hollywood in pursuit of an acting career fits the bill: When his cinematic ambitions ran dry, he bailed on the West Coast and returned to a bartending job in the District. Appropriately titled Leaving the Nest, his Domino Records debut has that same feeling of premature abandonment. Three months after the album's release, Ferree's MySpace page continued to state it was \"coming soon.\" And his homepage still hasn't been updated, listing his album as available on Box Theory Records, the label that first released it. In fact, Ferree's bio insists he wouldn't have released it at all unless his friends hadn't persuaded him to commit his songs to tape.  To some extent, the record reflects the ambivalent circumstances in which it seems to have been written. But Ferree's songwriting also retains a natural optimism which makes his songs uplifting even when he sings about defeat. \"In the Countryside\" kicks off with a \"Reelin' in the Years\" lick and boogierock stomp casual enough to conjure images of Ferree recording in denim overalls in some friend's basement (which might make him a dead ringer for Will Oldham, minus the acting career). It's also wholesome and completely guileless, especially considering that \"musician\" doesn't appear to have been high on Ferree's list of occupational preferences.  But as the album plays out, it gradually shakes off some of the brighteyed idealism of earlier tracks. Some particularly dark moments spring up on the violinbacked \"Private Honeymoon\", in which Ferree, perhaps recognizing that musical performance involves nearly as much persuasive delivery as acting itself, doubts his abilities in lines like, \"I get to write the fairy tales that never come true.\" And on the muscular \"Dogkillers!\", he more questions, more directly, why he can't just be left alone.  While it's striking that Ferree has somewhat haphazardly stumbled onto a debut with such fully formed songs, its tracks largely work from the same limited palette, presenting listeners with an experience that's, perhaps literally, a bit close to home: After multiple plays, Leaving the Nest begins to summon the same sense of dogged familiarity that makes sticking around your hometown both comfortable and suffocating.  "}