{"label":" Fueled by Ramen / Decaydance","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9702/homepage_large.2b39e84e.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Lifetime","title":"Lifetime","text":" In the early 1990s I interviewed L.A. poppunks All in their van outside a club in Trenton. It was around the time \"punk broke\" (again), and they spoke in semiveiled terms about bands like Green Day who'd been inspired by their past work with the Descendents and were now enjoying illbought commercial success. Bummer, but it seemed sadder that they cared. Lifetime could definitely get pissy about the success of any number radioready emo acts. But 17 years after they formed, and a decade after their last album, they've joined forces with their mutant offspring and signed to Decaydance, a label run by Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz. As it goes, lots of their original fans will probably shout \"sell out\" over Maximum Rock'n'Roll and morning coffee, but the quartet's reunion and selftitled comeback escapes the creepy, pathetic feel of, say, Pixies or Dinosaur Jr. Instead, it feels graceful and intelligent, the natural outcome of latent interests rather than an attempt to cash in on nostalgia or compete with the kids. But nostalgia's a major Lifetime component. In that way, a comeback's an intriguing idea; every Lifetime collection already comes wrapped in memories, ably enunciated by Ari Katz in his addictive, fractured vocals. His words gather the force of things past, conjuring the bygone experiences we still wistfully replay in our minds: The lines beside that girl's eyes when she smiled, or that New Brunswick basement show when she first sat next to you and you each mocked yet another group of Samiam knockoffs. Katz wears his heart on his sleeve, but also the heart of his scene and community.  It doesn't matter that Katz is now married and has a kid. Like the best punk writers weaned on Cometbus, he finds ducttaped Jawbreakerstyle poetry in everyday events, evoking youth and youth culture in transcendent ways. It's something for which the Hold Steady's Craig Finn has recently become very famous. He and Katz are after some of the same things, but Finn needs more sentences to pull it off. In fact, Katz's economy is amazing, how he paints a room an all its inhabitants with two strokes. Earning emo stripes, his underground storytelling is also more emotionally tinged (you can picture him in those places, ecstatic and amped).  Katz's writing fits perfectly with his bandmates' playing: Lifetime usually eschewed excess, and as with past efforts, the songs here still end before you expect them to: 11 anthems in under 25 minutes. It's less fragmentary and poppier than 1995's Hello Bastards, but more tightly arcing and less radiofriendly than Jersey's Best Dancers (the recording itself is super compressed, lending the album the feel of a single blast). Lyrically, Katz refuses to let things go; sonically, whenever there's 40 or so seconds remaining in a track, the band pulls out the catchiest stops, launching into a few of their best hooks ever. Goodbyes are redolent flight patterns.  After three dozen listens, there are still no duds. The first few tracks, though, are certainly trying hard to dig their talons into the listener. Packed with bouncy shifts, the opener \"Northbound Breakdown\" could be a continuation of \"Turnpike Gates\" from Jersey's Best Dancers, but is also redolent of the premature escape and return of Jawbreaker's \"Chesterfield King\": \"I hope you're in your car right now/ Turning this shit up so loud/ I hope you're in the mood to turn it to my favorite station.\" But a summer cruise can't be without its problems: You run out of gas, need help getting pushed up the overpass. And after an obstacle course like that, Katz's final entreaty feels wellearned. Lifetime isn't an album of sunny delight; nighttime is the predominant ambiance. \"Airport Monday Morning\" documents a girl's departure, and its harmonies and lastditch chorus turn out like this: The protagonist watches a linehalting couple kissing at the airport. Conversely, \"Just a Quiet Night\" embraces domesticity, as does the oneonone vinyl listening session \"Records at Nite\" (have fun guessing what they're spinning).  There is one dig at today's emo stars: During \"All Night Long,\" wandering in the rain after a fight with his lady, Katz mentions \"punk rock millionaires with coke up their nose/ ...Writing records in designer homes.\" He knows, though, that his damp, less plush situation is pretty perfect. And the girl? \"It's really all right if we don't talk at all/ It's only one song.\" This is just one moment of smart, mature meta.  Katz has said that months of touring are no longer in the cards for the band; in fact, it's said to be a reason they broke up in '97. If this ends up as a oneoff a tiny chapter Lifetime catches the band fairly close to its lateperiod luster, though coupled with the wisdom (and differences) of age. It feels like a recap: There are references to older songs and characters, luggage and leavings, doors opening and closing, the slow creep of adulthood, and tons of people feeling tired. Lifetime is less about meeting the kids at the flagpole and more about the exhaustion brought on by navigating love, boredom, shows, and sickness. The eponymous title? Feels like the signature at the end of a letter...  "}