{"label":" Go! Discs","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9707/homepage_large.5ff5c955.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joe Tangari","artist":"The La's","title":"BBC in Session","text":"  The La's are a band surrounded by myth and critical reverence. Their story is a frustrating tale of thwarted perfectionism and unfulfilled potential that still doesn't have a proper ending. Formed in 1986, they immediately established a reputation as an excellent live band in their native Liverpool, and leader Lee Mavers made his mark as a songwriter of enormous talent. Mavers penned the band's whole catalog, save for one collaboration with bassist John Power, but he was never satisfied with the studio recordings of most of their songs. This perfectionism is somewhat excessive the band's sole album, a selftitled disc finally released in 1990 after many failed attempts to record it, is actually pretty good, if not quite what Mavers and his mates wanted it to be. It's one of those records that I read about for years, a youhavetohearit album for many that sounded good but unspectacular when I finally heard it. Listening to this new collection of BBC sessions, I can see why the band was disappointed with the way it came out. The La's frankly sounds limp and watery relative to the fierce, adrenalized performances on BBC in Session, which instantly has become the more essential purchase of the two. Drawn from four sessions, one a year from 1987 to 1990, these seventeen tracks include versions of most of their debut along with three nonalbum cuts. Tellingly, Mavers and Power are the only two members present for every date, as they cycled through three guitarists and four drummers. That flux in membership may partly explain why Mavers could never quite get the sound he heard in his head. While I'm not sure exactly what he was aiming for, it's hard to imagine most of these songs ever sounding better than they do here in all their raw glory.  The first session, featuring a lineup that had already changed from the band's original incarnation, is the most relaxed of the four, opening with a measured version of \"Doledrum\" and a swaying take on \"Way Out\". Mavers plays acoustic rhythm guitar, leaving Paul Hemmings plenty of space for his electric leads. The revelation of the session is the Bside \"Come In Come Out\", a funky track with bluesy touches from Hemmings and Mavers at his catchy best.  In a way, the sessions outline a mental progression for the band, beginning in an easygoing vein and growing more urgent as the years pass and an album remains elusive. The second session opens with a version of \"Son of a Gun\" that destroys the album version they recorded two years later. And the band's most enduring anthem, the effervescent \"There She Goes\", is a great deal more muscular but no less sweetly memorable in this rendition, with a fantastically varied backing track. Both the '88 and '90 sessions include storming versions of \"I Can't Sleep\", but I have to give the nod to the earlier take for the sheer unpolished bravado it displays, particularly in Ian Templeton's unhinged drumming.  We get five songs from '89, definitely topped by \"Calling All\", a song that at one point was slated to be the title track of the band's debut album. It wound up being left off entirely for reasons unclear it's their toughest song, with a nasty rhythm track, Spanish guitar flourishes, and a breakdown that sounds like a blueprint for the midsection of Nirvana's \"Drain You\". A year later, they played it again, this time even rougher and harder. Mavers sounds like he's trying to sing through the instrumentation rather than over it, and it's interesting to hear the difference in the way his brother Neil approaches the song on the drum kit versus the tack Chris Sharrock took a year prior. Sharrock's drumming is heavy on carefully tuned toms and auxiliary percussion, an almost melodic approach, while Neil Mavers brings a thumping, visceral style that gives the song a completely different kind of energy. Either way, they're both astounding takes of the song.  It's hard to believe that the band on the last session is the same one that recorded The La's, mostly due to the fact that they sound so inspired, and it's weird that they couldn't duplicate the feel of the session in a different studio. It seems they may have simply put too much pressure on themselves recording the album to get what they really wanted. They hated what they wound up with, and though Mavers apparently did try to record a second album, it was never finished. Power went on to found Cast, while Mavers simply faded away, only to reemerge at a La's reunion in 2005. He'd claimed before that 2007 would see a new La's album (perhaps a longpurported rerecording of the first one?), but that remains to be seen. In the meantime, BBC in Session is the closest thing to a definitive document of the band.  "}