{"label":" What's Your Rupture?","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9711/homepage_large.df04aafa.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nitsuh Abebe","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Imagine the Shapes","text":" Imagine the Shapes collects a set of early vinyl singles and EPs from What's Your Rupture?, a relatively new boutique label based in New York City, and quite possibly the indiest indie in the known universe at the moment. It's downright anachronistic, really, the way the four bands on this compilation hark back to the wellspring of the whole concept of \"indie\" the scrappy, madeinthebasement pop of mid80s England, scratchy C86 bands, John Peel favorites, anoraks, \"shambling,\" and hardtofind Postcard 7inches. There's hardly a song here you couldn't plausibly pass off as a 1984 Rough Trade single. What's surprising is how much vitality some of these recordings squeeze out of that sound, recapturing the celebratory, DIY feel of the original article. The most successful and bestknown of the bunch is Swedish band Love Is All, whose three tracks here won't be of much use to anyone who's already picked up their fulllength. (If only they'd found a way to include the haunting early mix of \"Felt Tip\" that was floating around the net a couple years ago.) Still, these songs remain pretty revelatory: In a world where indie rock bands feel increasingly pinched, calculating, and reserved, Love Is All burst out with this total exuberance exactly the kind of music smart teenagers should be tearing up their bedrooms to. It's not just that their songwriting's so fluent, or that their scratchy saxophone postpunk gives me warm flashbacks to older albums: there's something almost daring and exciting cropping back up in this music, a spirit that almost makes me hope this band will grow up to be the Smiths of the new millennium. The intriguingly named caUSE coMOTION! are the only act on the roster to hail from New York presentday New York, even, though you wouldn't know it from the sound of them. Their song \"Baby Don't Do It\" sounds so much like an early Television Personalities single that it nearly makes me suspicious: How much money did these guys have to spend on vintage recording equipment to sound this much like a band of underfunded schoolboys from 1982? There's certainly something charming in their freespirited spazpop, and they occasionally have quite a way with hooks, effectively straddling the thin line between \"twee as fuck\" and \"punk as fuck\"; I'd guess we can expect something pretty interesting from them a few releases down the line. But I'd also guess that the shambly feel of this EP will make them a difficult taste to acquire for anyone who's not already up to his ears in old Boyracer records. For somewhat less scrappy sounds, there are the Long Blondes, from Sheffield, whose girlgroup and Motown influences are still pretty much in line with that UK84 feel; they just wind up sounding like Dolly Mixture. The version of \"Giddy Stratospheres\" here is a lot more spare and prickly than the album mix, and still a treat postpunk and glamour sitting well together. But it's when they drop the 60s hints that they sound most vital: \"Autonomy Boy\" has a scratchy, disappointed pulse, and \"Darts\" presumably conceived as a throwaway is like a funny Elastica bside that never was. The closing set comes from Comet Gain, the band here with the biggest connection to those indie roots: Their pedigree runs back through several lineup changes to the early90s pop underground, and the quality of the songs here backs up that long experience. Their patron indie saints, 80swise, would have to be the Pastels: \"Beautiful Despair\" tears along, bleakly anthemic, with the same kind of lazy grace. \"Never Die\" does the same for a more optimistic pop sound, and the spoken text of \"Maining Mystery\" plumbs at failure and disappointment the way this band has been doing for a while now. \"The song we wrote today existed yesterday, and will always sound the same,\" it says, which might actually be the case. Digging back to indie's roots like this could just amount to a stylistic fetish, a trend revival, a sound briefly back in fashion but if it means resurrecting the spirit of the stuff, and results in music that feels as liberated, weighty, and exciting as the material a couple of these bands have been turning out lately, then I'm all for it. "}