{"label":" Mille Plateaux","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/13453/homepage_large.0475ea96.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Tim Hecker","title":"Radio Amor","text":"  Tim Hecker's second fulllength under his own name originally on Mille Plateaux in 2003, then out of print, now reissued on Alien 8 was inspired in part by an image of a commercial fisherman gracefully tending to his boat's rigging. When I hear background like this about an instrumental album, I always try to listen at least once without thinking of the reference. Which is, of course, impossible, as surely as you're unable to keep a picture of an elephant out of your mind right now. But it's still worth a try, to see whether one can absorb and study sound as sound, whether music, abstract as it is, can tell a story or conjure an atmosphere completely on its own. It's a question with a long history. In the last century, there was Holst's The Planets, which attempted to render the Roman gods using music. Is \"Saturn\" in fact \"Saturnlike\"? Could you tell without knowing the title? Hard to say. But hearing Radio Amor's opening track \"Song of the Highwire Shrimper\" I thought immediately of Herbie Hancock's Maiden Voyage, another instrumental suite inspired by the sea that seems to evoke its subject. When I went back later to reread my initial review of Radio Amor, I saw that I'd previously noted the Hancock connection; so for me at least, there's something to the link. \"Song of the Highwire Shrimper\", with its brief trill of piano notes coiled haphazardly on a floor of staticflecked drone, sure feels aqueous, like it's pushing away from something solid, that quiet sensation of drift and inertia before the engines kick in or the sail goes up. It's hard to know when the following \"(They Call Me) Jimmy\" begins without looking at the CD player, but its blaring, warningsignal whine when it arrives continues the metaphor in dramatic fashion. These opening tracks are Hecker at his most painterly and evocative, the closest he's come so far to the concrete imagery of Brian Eno's On Land. But the remainder of the album, through accident or design, doesn't sustain the aquatic vibe. The prevailing theme of Radio Amor sounds to me now like a struggle for connection. It's a conversation that hopes to be carried across frayed wires that are constantly shorting out, causing the signal to disintegrate in a cloud of static. It's not voices per se that are trying to get over, but essences, information. The piano notes that are being smashed to digital bits during \"I'm Transmitting Tonight\" seem to come from a song whose meaning is clear and whose melody is true, but there's no way for it to make it through to us. In this world, all sounds are reduced to their fundamentals and smeared like mud against a crumbling brick wall. But the shapes are still something to behold.  It's a tense record. Radio Amor is Hecker's coldest and most piercing work, without the billowy blissedout sections he usually manages to work in somewhere. In the midalbum stretch from \"7000 Miles\" through \"The Star Compass\", the drones are needley and harsh, with pricks of static keeping the mood on edge. It's not easy to listen to casually.  Returning here again after internalizing Mirages and Harmony in Ultraviolet, Hecker sounds like he hadn't quite mastered the use of dynamics at this point, that the arcs between whispersoft and explosively loud weren't mapped out as clearly. During the record's final section, on tracks like \"Azure, Azure\", he begins to draw in the distorted, metalderived guitar gurgles that became much more pronounced on his next album. But here the impact is subtler, the guitar less a towering symbol of destruction and more just another sound tool, one you wouldn't necessarily pick out if you weren't listening for it.  That said, Radio Amor holds up very well. If anything, coming back to this record makes Hecker's sound seem more diverse than I've been giving him credit for. His records sound like the work of a single person with a clear aesthetic, but their range in moods and varying impact are markers of a more flexible approach. Time will tell.  "}