{"label":" Eastern Developments","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9717/homepage_large.26904f8d.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jess Harvell","artist":"Soft Circle","title":"Full Bloom","text":" This is not where I expected to end up during my years as an idealistic hardcore fan, whether earnestly quoting Howard Zinn and pretending to read The Nation. Even on the website that all but invented internetage metareview malarkey, drawing up some seemingly tenuous personal connection between author and band is the most dangerous game after hunting man and \"Dance Dance Revolution.\" But bear with me. Like many of you reading this right now, I'm roughly the same age as the guys in Black Dice (latetwenties/earlythirties) and possibly share the same background (initially spending my weekends at VFW hall hardcore shows before swimming outward through the weirder, more esoteric algae of rock and otherwise). The new and excellent solo debut LP from former Dice drummer and visual artist Hisham Bharoocha, Full Bloom, just wants to (gently) bang on the drum all day, preferably while fiddling with some texturizing knobs and moaning pleasantly in the background. It doesn’t set out to, but it turns out to be a rather interesting summation/meditation/thesis on where 1990s hardcore flopped down in the 21st century. I don't want to make any assumptions about Bharoocha's background; for all I know, he could have enjoyed the kind of broad, early musical education I forswore for \"Robotech\" and \"You Can’t Do That On Television\", spending his summers Crayolaing to obscure hippie folk and \"Persepolis\". But it does strike me that so many hardcore fans who started out pushing their parents' lawnmower with DRI on the walkman seem to be kicking back to pleasant, ambient, new agey music now that their hair is thinning and their midsections are peeking out from underneath their ringer tees. Perhaps this is nature's way for all \"extreme\" genres, unless you just plain get off on bloodying yourself and knockin' out teeth by running into the same wall, like those black metal cats moving from making buttugly walls of screech and skree to playing learner's permit Reichian keyboards in the name of Wotan. Perhaps, perhaps. Here's a far smarter man than you or I, Mr. Robert Christgau, writing about Black Dice's Beaches and Canyon in 2002: \"Two years ago, when they were licking broken cymbals and mixing in keyb groans from a reeltoreel, I told my diary they reminded me of the Swans and were as likely to go classical…Novelty records rock and rollers can never get enough of them.\" Now that's a tad unfair, don't you think? But his Swans reference once a band that made guitarbassdrums feel like you were being Jesuswhipped while pumping your legs on a stairmaster's hardest setting, before moving onto deeptissue found sound keyboard washes at least seems to bolster my notparticularoriginal thesis that all that is solid must eventually dissolve into disembodied swooshes and smeared and prettified guitar. A decade ago, I might have been suspicious of the fact that tracks like \"Moon Oar Sunrise\" get all of their juice out of just seesawing drone smears and endlessly ululatin’ \"ohhhhhs\" for a good four minutes before the drummer in Bharoocha rolls off some crashing whitecaps for the last four. Maybe the heavy, moronically repetitive ratatat of hardcore actually set me up in the long run to enjoy the subtle variations of the cycling rainforest mallets of \"Sundazed\".  If it seems like I'm avoiding discussing the actual sound of Full Bloom in any great detail, you're right; when it comes to music this \"abstract,\" in the allscreweddownchorus/noversesorlyrics sense, I'm not sure what's gained by me pinpointing exactly when the drums crest in track one or writing \"poetic\" stuff like \"daybreak guitar dapples rippling through the mix as the drums pattern softly behind them.\" (I have written things like that before, I will again, and I am not proud of it.) Here's this mood music's general mood arc: starts justoutofbed slow; builds circular, percussioncentric variations on a general handdrumsounding template over a handful of tracks with other instrumental and vocal input limited to coloration of a \"prayer chants delivered stoned from the living room floor\" variety; climaxes with a slightly more \"electronic\" and \"dance\" final track that ups both tempo and the general physical oomph. But oomph or no oomph, where I once turned to Black Dice's music (particularly the 7\" on Vermin Scum) because I actually enjoyed feeling like I was about to shake myself apart with anger, I've actually been using Full Bloom as a beforebedtime calmative, since I now see a constant, unending tension as a path to an ulcer instead of enlightenment.  Bharoocha claimed in an interview you can dig up on Google that his art matched his music in that it was \"psychedelic\" and \"patternbased.\" While I certainly won't argue the former, and there are indeed patterns lurking even in the seemingly rhythmically disconnected moments of Full Bloom, the overall feel of the album is murkier (like the diffracted brightness of summer smog) and less colorful than his gorgeous, dayglo visual work which, judging by the amount of kids I see ripping it off in local galleries, may turn out to be more influential than his music. And comparing a decampee's work to his old band's old stuff is tricky, as if there's necessarily got to be a direct connection, but there is a certain analogue analog here to the armsoutstretchedonthewhitesands vibe of the best parts of Beaches and Canyons, even if Bharoocha's warmer palette forgoes BD's digital sea spritz. See I'm already gettin' too \"creative.\" Whatever: these drumtastic, birdiechirpin' ambient soundscapes are really good, and you should totally buy them.  "}