{"label":" Honest Jon's","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/98/homepage_large.e7deebc7.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jedediah Gilchrist","artist":"Damon Albarn","title":"Democrazy","text":" Damon Albarn is rightfully cocky these days. He's weathered the rise and fall of Britpop with a creative and relatively daring body of work (at least, relative to that of your average Gallagher brother), and, in the face of losing longtime musical partner and melodic powerhouse Graham Coxon, even led Blur to new heights in 2003 with Think Tank, which pushed the band in brave new directions that frequently echoed his dabblings with Gorillaz and Mali Music. But as much as the fates have smiled on Blur's frontman, no amount of conceit warrants the release of halfbaked ideas masquerading as songs, even if that release is mercifully limited to a homegrown 10inch vinyl pressing of 5,000 copies. The 14 tracks that constitute Albarn's Democrazy are symbolic of both his creative process and celebrity hubris. Recorded in hotel rooms during Blur's 2003 Think Tank tour, this record offers naked representations of what may one day become fleshedout tracks for any one of Albarn's pet projects. Composed principally of canned beats, acoustic guitar, Casio synths and Albarn's trademark whine, the songs vary between flat instrumentals (\"Reedz\", \"Saz Theory Book\"), truncated melodies (\"Half a Song\", \"I Need a Gun\"), and loopcentric vamps (\"A Rappy Song\", \"Five Star Life\"), most of which are less adventurous than the average selfproduced download from the heyday of mp3.com. A few of the stronger tracks manage to approach fullblown song status, but fall short for one reason or another. With \"Sub Species of an American Day\", Albarn zings us Yanks with an eversobiting commentary on ambivalent American culture, pointing out our ironic simultaneous love for both exercise and leisure (touché, my limey friend Albarn 1, America 0); \"I Miss You\", at best, could have made for a subpar Great Escape Bside; and the pleasantly simple acoustic strum of \"American Welfare Poem\" is blown by Albarn's mumbled, extemporaneously wandering vocals, producing a halfsong both uninventive and inaccessible. Democrazy's strongest moment comes with the hideously titled \"Gotta Get Down with the Passing of Time\", which, not coincidentally, is the closest thing here to a fully realized song. Curiously, the track seems to owe a debt to early Beat Happening, and in spite of its pithy lyrics, remains a brief respite from overwhelming mediocrity. However, it's been sequenced as the album's penultimate track, which makes it an unfortunate case of too little, too late. The release of such an incomplete and stillborn collection begs the question: Who really cares about Albarn's hotel room musings? It's not as though there's a shortage of Albarn releases in the world, and besides, his omnipresence neutralizes any mystique that might kindle interest in how a Blur song is born. Indeed, he's already recorded such a wealth of great material that no mystique remains, leaving no real reason for anyone including the most dedicated fan to seek out these poorly produced musical shreds. "}