{"label":" Max Ernst","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9726/homepage_large.8721f50f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Philip Sherburne","artist":"Thomas Brinkmann","title":"Klick Revolution","text":" Apologies to Dorothy Parker (and Vassar girls), but if Thomas Brinkmann laid every lock groove end to end, I wouldn't be surprised. Among producers working with sampled wax, no one has gotten more mileage out of less surface area than Brinkmann he's explored every nook and cranny of the vinyl record's grooved surface. His earliest productions were more like conceptualist interventions, as he played back records by Mike Ink and Richie Hawtin on a custommade, twotonearmed turntable that transformed their desiccated thumps into woozy, choppedandscrewed dub techno. The process shared as much in common with Milan Knizak or Christian Marclay's Fluxus pranks as it did contemporary remixology. Subsequent releases found Brinkmann further reducing his subject matter, literally carving his beats by scratching vinyl with an Xacto knife and using the resulting clicks and pops in place of kicks and hihats. Brinkmann's more recent output the single \"Lovesong\"/\"Hatesong\", the album Lucky Hands has employed a fuller range of sources, relying on fat, gloopy samples and synthesizer sounds to turn out a carnivalesque take on techno, but Klick Revolution, following up on 2000's Klick, finds Brinkmann stripping down as minimally as ever. There are a few \"musical\" elements here hazy washes of strings run backwards, lone piano notes as delicate as Morton Feldman's but for the most part, Brinkmann's structures are thickets of skittering white noise.  These are the kind of aleatory rhythms that could arise only from the collision of stylus, dust mote, and battered vinyl, and they're immediately recognizable as such. As a gimmick, it's a concept that's long worn out its welcome; what makes it work here, perhaps better than ever before in Brinkmann's career, is the hypnotic precision with which the frizzy loops hang together. Brinkmann's sense of rhythm is as nuanced as Ricardo Villalobos', and it's not hard to find a profound sense of funk in Brinkmann's skipping, popping polyrhythms, as a rollicking techno chug gives way to an almost schaffellike threeagainsttwo pattern. Mixing and filtering much as a DJ would, Brinkmann builds up layer upon layer of loops; moving through them feels like riding a train through a landscape of shifting moiré patterns. Ultimately, Klick Revolution is all about the concept of collision. What happens when funk, aka \"black music,\" collides with the brushed percussion and dissonant arrangements of the European avantgarde? (It might not be a coincidence that the cover art for Klick Revolution, like that of its predecessor, is black and white—although this time out, everything seems to be fading to gray.) What happens when playback devices become performers, and when machines play music with the kind of timing once only expected from human expression? According to its press release, Klick Revolution is allegedly \"a tribute to the pinball machine… the locked box with the inclined plane,\" which has led some reviewers to hear in the album the clack and whir of bumpers and flippers. (According to Brinkmann, they're missing the point: No arcade games were harmed in the making of this recording.) I'm inclined to see the pinball concept as a red herring, just another feint from this infamously tricksterish artist a ball of fluff designed to knock the needle off course, as it were. But whatever your take on its theoretical underpinnings, this short, gripping record is a masterpiece of minimalist intensity and meticulous execution.  "}