{"label":" Sanctuary / Trojan","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9733/homepage_large.0b50e7a9.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Jonny Greenwood Is the Controller","text":"  With their divisive 1993 debut Pablo Honey, Radiohead didn't so much ride the coattails of grunge to mass success as stumble over them, and they've been apologizing for it ever since. In fact, they seem to have something of a complex about it, some deepseated concern that they first became famous for all the wrong reasons, even if their subsequent output has more than made up for early missteps and misplaced earnestness. Read any of Alex Ross' definitive Radiohead profiles in The New Yorker, or Nick Kent's epic interviews in Mojo, and you'll witness a band all but desperate to show off its good taste and book smarts, dropping musical theory and art history knowledge in the same breaths they use to praise pop pioneers both past and present. And look no further than Thom Yorke, so quick to credit predecessors such as R.E.M. and Pixies for his band's DNA, or Jonny Greenwood, who no sooner became a new generation's guitar hero than he started namedropping (and covering) 20th century composers Penderecki, Ligeti, and Messiaen, and setting aside his axe to experiment with protosynthesizer the Ondes Martenot. Though the group's music has established enough bona fides to get the band past any crisis of confidence, Radiohead's somewhat abashed coolbutcoy routine continues to this day. The group carefully sifts through the best of indiedom for appropriate opening acts. Last year Yorke released his solo debut The Eraser, which he stressed as if ashamed by the very cliché of it was absolutely not a solo debut. And most recently the singer bigupped the likes of Liars, Spank Rock, Modeselektor, and Stephen Malkmus on an iTunes \"celebrity playlist\".  Now comes Greenwood with his own mix, Jonny Greenwood Is the Controller, a troll through Trojan Records' vast vaults for some of the guitarist's favorite reggae and dub tracks. The compilation marks the rare opportunity for Greenwood to show off a part of Radiohead's creative compass, sure, but it's also yet another excuse for Trojan to repackage and rebrand its back catalog this time recontextualized by the endorsement of one of rock's most trusted tastemakers. Modest to the core, Greenwood didn't exactly dig up the most obscure singles and mixes he could find that might be a little too hip. In the liner notes, a humble Greenwood admits to a sixmonth reggae crash course to prepare for the project, which he preemptively deems just \"the surface,\" writing that he's \"still discovering Jamaican artists, new to me, that really should have been included here.\"  Oh well. But neither does Greenwood stick exclusively to the tried and true or obvious that would be a little too square. Instead, he carefully hones to the credibilityenhancing middle, with an emphasis on 70s tracks and a slight focus on mad scientist Lee \"Scratch\" Perry (represented here as either an artist, producer, or collaborator with four of the 17 tracks). But the 70s being the 70s, and reggae being reggae, how could Greenwood ignore Scratch's impact? Whether on his own with the outthere \"Bionic Rats\", or sprinkling his studio dust over Junior Byles' menacing take on \"Fever\", Perry ruled.  Greenwood makes sure to include tracks by other big behindtheboards names, too. There's Linval Thompson's \"Dread Are the Controller\", which opens the disc and inspired its title, and Joe Gibbs, represented via Marcia Aitken's version of Alton Ellis' timeless and oftcovered \"I'm Still in Love\". Sly and Robbie prop up Johnny Clarke & the Aggrovators' \"A Ruffer Version\" as well as the aforementioned \"Dread\", and Greenwood's quick to note there are hundreds more of their sessions where those came from.  From Jamaica's earlier wave there are tracks from names like Delroy Wilson, Desmond Dekker, and the Heptones, each still going strong as the golden age of rocksteady gave way to reggae. Being a Britrock icon, Greenwood dusts off \"Right Road to Dubland\" by the Jahlights, the dub version of their own \"Right Road to Zion\", which represented Britain's burgeoning Jamaican music scene in the late 70s the same scene that helped fuel and inspire punk and, you might say, helped lay the groundwork for subsequent bands like Radiohead.  OK, so that's a stretch. But other than that, there's very little here directly or indirectly related to Radiohead or the music it makes. So, why Greenwood, then? Why was he tapped to put this thing together? It's hard to imagine Greenwood lighting up and finding God to this stuff, and Oxford isn't known for its frats. It's a lot easier to imagine that he, like countless reggae fans before him, was simply attracted to the spacey productions and impeccable songcraft, the kind of music (as he also alludes to in the liner notes) that you can spend a lifetime digesting and enjoying. \"All musical life is here,\" he declares, and it's hard to argue, at least while the disc is playing.  But what does Greenwood bring to the mix that no one else could have brought? To be honest, nothing. Any number of Trojan comps could serve the same purpose as this one, as would similarly irresistible selections by Soul Jazz, Blood & Fire, and other key Jamaican reissue labels. No, the exchange here is primarily one way, with the comp drawing Greenwood a little additional cachet nonetheless disproportionate to the relatively rote history he dispenses.  Not that there's anything wrong with that. One could do much worse than spend an hour with these tracks, whether you've heard them once or a thousand times. The music remains vital, so there's no faulting Greenwood for sharing his newfound passion. Fellow newbs, though, would be wise to heed his advice: This is only the beginning, the surface. Keep searching and you'll keep finding.  "}