{"label":" Aesthetics","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9744/homepage_large.c3a2139a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"The Eternals","title":"Heavy International","text":" It's a shame that \"rawar style\" never caught on, but the Eternals are a band that beg for hyphens, blending any strain of underground genres they can crowd onto the same playground and make them behave. The man with the whistle, corralling this game of genre dodgeball is Damon Locks, former vocal beacon of the similarly borderblurring Trenchmouth, his discordant pleading over every track like a mix of Fela Kuti and Vincent Price. Heavy International is, more than any of their former records, a seamless blending of dub, funk, and punk, but throwing in Bmovie monstermash keyboards and stungun effects to create a dense, immersive listen. Their last album (2004's Rawar Style) offered more anthems, as any good punk/reggae band should, but there's no one with \"High Anxiety\" or anyone getting \"Shot Down (in the Middle of Division Street)\" here Heavy International is far too selfcontained a universe to offer any sort of hook out of its hermetically weird world, let alone a map. How odd is it? Creepy highpitched cooing about staging a coup, sounding like a robot nursery chorus? Check, on \"Feed the Youth (Stage a Coup)\". Herb Alpert horns underneath Locks' paranoid soapboxing about gamma rays? Check, on \"The Mix Is So Bizarre\". A cursory listen should tell you whether you'll love it or hate it, but you don't dabble with something this serious. It's not that Heavy International lacks melody, but it does eschew any breath of fresh air or relief. When it's on, however, the mix isn't just \"so bizarre,\" it's a righteous nerd explosion that song, in particular, is a storm of deep bass prods, horn stabs, and cowbell pokes. Locks has always wavered just above and below being in key, but he sounds downright uncorked here. \"Astra 3B\" is weird minimal factoryfunk, mired with bongos, melancholy droids, and echoes of faraway bombs, as Locks uses his frayed falsetto to explore more personal themes. More eerie, processed vocals begin \"Patch of Blue\" over typewritertap percussion, before its indiscernible but memorable hook that could be guitar or keyboard, but sounds like tires skidding on ice. Aside from its fingerpopping bass groove, the track is more incidental squeaks than a tune, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Even in their most indulgent moments, the rhythms are always tight and controlled. Still, the thrill wears off somewhat as the tempos slow. \"Crime\" is a rolling, repetitive, slippery groove that runs far too many cycles, and there's some great moments of slimy distortofunk like \"The Origin of the Heat Ray\"; but there's also lot of sound collage and one example of meandering political musing, \"Too Many People (Do the Wrong Thing)\", before you get to the final duet \"M.O.A.B\", which isn't much of a payoff. The album is perhaps too crammed and if it were the length of the more concise Rawar Style, it'd be a much more potent record. Still, barring a few of their older highlights, Heavy International contains all your essential Eternals. It's a leap into cold water if you've never heard them, but it's the band's finest and freakiest effort to date. "}