{"label":" Columbia / Legacy","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9752/homepage_large.20eebc38.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Joshua Klein","artist":"Johnny Cash","title":"Ultimate Gospel","text":"  Johnny Cash's latecareer rebirth has few parallels in modern pop history. But it's remarkable nonetheless that in 2006, three years after his death, Cash's five million records sold in the U.S. made him the year's secondmost successful artist, right behind Rascal Flatts (but, satisfyingly, well ahead of Nickelback). That's a pretty big number twice Justin Timberlake's tally but somewhat explainable. 2005's Walk the Line helped solidify Cash's status as a great American icon, just as a steady stream of Rick Rubinhelmed comeback discs demonstrated his powers had barely been diminished by age and illness. Cash was one of the few acts that everybody young and old, cool and conservative, country or pop could embrace. Those numbers being what they are, though, don't expect the Cash releases to slow down anytime soon. In the past few years alone, Cash has inspired new careerspanning boxed sets, bestofs, expanded live albums, June Carter Cash duets, and Personal File, a collection of unreleased demos. Following 2006's at the time allegedly \"final\" American V: A Hundred Highways, Rubin has even announced a sixth volume of the series. Now comes Ultimate Gospel, a collection of Cash's spiritual work. Cash had been recording gospel material from the start but particularly throughout his later years. Most recently he completed the moving My Mother's Hymn Book as part of the Unearthed boxed set (it was subsequently rereleased as a standalone set), songs his mother once sang that Cash took with him (both literally and figuratively) everywhere he went. Even when his longtime label Columbia occasionally lost faith in the marketability of gospel, Cash kept cranking out the discs at semiregular intervals, jumping ship to smaller labels when need be to get the music out. Lately, gospel not to mention fundamentalist Christianity has been experiencing something of a renaissance, so it's no shock that the same label that sometimes frowned upon Cash's religious recordings is eager to revisit them today. But times are different. Big music names from Bono to Mary J. Blige to Arcade Fire are believers of the highest order, but they generally get a free pass from all but the most staunchly secularist followers of Richard Dawkins. Besides, Cash's own bornagain story is perfectly in line with the singer's other mythic American, larger than life tales: In 1967, hopped up on speed, Cash crawled into Nickajack Cave and prepared to die, until he felt the hand of God point him to salvation. He married June Carter the following year and lead a life of devout Christianity until his demise. Yet Cash's relationship to God was complex (as nonChristian friends like Rubin would later attest). He believed, but he didn't always believe what other believers believed. For Cash, religion was strictly personal, and recording gospel was part of his own ongoing rehabilitation, a way to reconnect with his roots and keep him spiritually focused rather than simply a means to draw converts. That's one reason Cash was never branded a Christian artist per se, even though Ultimate Gospel includes explicitly Christian music, a little more than half of it traditional, which he'd been recording since the 50s. Starting with a live 1970 Grand Ole Opry take on Johnny Bond and Tex Ritter's \"Here Was a Man\" may be conceptually sound, but it drags on at under three minutes and paints Cash as something he wasn't: a bore. Likewise, the next track, 1971's \"The Preacher Said, 'Jesus Said'\", a partly spokenword collaboration with Rev. Billy Graham, comes off kitschy despite its clear convictions. That's the thin line Ultimate Gospel walks for most of its duration. It's music for the devout, sure, but it can also be corny. Not coincidentally, Cash's Ultimate Gospel is being marketed alongside an Elvis Presley Ultimate Gospel collection, underscoring the seldomspoken connection between the two former peers. Both remained icons throughout the 70s, but musically they were each pretty moribund. Needless to say, the best tracks on Ultimate Gospel are those that show Cash at his (first) peak, either recording in the 50s with the Tennessee Two or the 60s with the Carter Family (though 1968's \"Daddy Sang Bass\" is a questionable gospel standard). By the 70s, even as country grew more fashionable, Johnny Cash grew less so, and the songs from that decade included here like \"Far Side Banks of Jordan\" or a litefare version of the generally redoubtable \"Amazing Grace\" are notable only for their ordinariness. It took another couple of decades for Cash to get his mojo back, with albums more gripping, creative, and spiritually stirring than a lot of what's repackaged here. Fittingly, as Cash grew older and sicklier, his religious songs packed more weight than many included on this comp. \"Spiritual\", from 1996's Unchained, marks one of Cash's greatest vocal performances, and \"When the Man Comes Around\" and \"God's Gonna Cut You Down\" (from volumes four and five of the American series, respectively) are as fervently, feverishly apocalyptic as anything Cash ever recorded. Besides, the struggle between his better nature and his demons was the dramatic conflict that often made Cash so compelling \"The Beast in Me\", former soninlaw Nick Lowe's contribution to the American Recordings disc summed it up pretty well and listening to a set composed strictly of spiritual songs sacrifices much of that drama for the sake of (ironically) marketing. But what's God without the Devil? What's to be gained from listening to the devout preach to the converted without getting the other side damnation, the cost of giving in to temptation? Listening to Cash embrace his innate goodness isn't a bad trip by any stretch, but that innate goodness is only a small part of what made Cash great. "}