{"label":" Important","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9758/homepage_large.52e6db04.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Grayson Currin","artist":"Yellow Swans & Birchville Cat Motel","title":"Yellow Swans & Birchville Cat Motel","text":"  Portland, Ore.'s Yellow Swans Gabriel Mindel Salomon and Pete Swanson run a record label and produce experimental schizophrenia that either clicks slowly from pedals or swarms from vengeful circuits; New Zealand's Birchville Cat Motel Campbell Kneale has created two decades worth of postBlack Sabbath sludge. But, while both artists have distinctive sounds, they've often challenged themselves and expectations with prolificacy, range, and collaboration. This twotrack album recorded on stage and in a New Zealand studio after a Swans tour organized by Kneale finds these two artists trading in their senses of dynamics for demonstrations of brute force. The bands' goal seems to be to impress with how much sound can be made by three people. It was easy to expect that Yellow Swans and Birchville Cat Motel, when together, would launch an offensive. But this uniform, fullfrontal assault is all force and no finesse. Opener \"Terminal Saints\"'s grating electronic sustains smother everything that tries to take shape beneath. When it begins to settle 14 minutes in, it's too little, too late.  Problem is there seems to be little communication in the execution. Take, for instance, the stream of white noise that covers most of \"Terminal Carcass\", the album's second track. It's a colossal sound, but held largely constant for most of the track it makes for a miserable foundation. Everything pushing beneath and against it cavitysplitting analogue screeches, a lumbering bass line, industrial metal flotsam has little to no effect. It's as though Kneale, Swanson, and Salomon's guiding principles for these improvisations was simply: get loud quickly, stay that way, and see what interesting stuff happens next. While that's a fine plan for a session between such juggernauts, it precludes success if every move directed toward step three see what interesting stuff happens next seems like an afterthought. Here, that happens twice, and the result is two largely uninteresting stalemates.  This is powerful, at least: The album's gambit is to unleash a cascade of sound that pins the audience against a wall. That works. Kneale has been doing the same thing for decades in Birchville, but he's always had a way of bringing things back to rest, of offering a chair to the exhausted listener. And Yellow Swans have always mustered a confounding appreciation for detail, no matter the maximal wail or nonevent creep of the sessions. For last year's Mudsuckers album with Robert Horton and Tom Carter, the Swans launched into a fullscale, multipart fury. They led, however, with a sense of their sound as a whole. This collaboration benefits from neither of the above. Instead, it's two behemoths, gritting their teeth and flexing at one another, missing an opportunity to do more.  "}