{"label":" Camera Obscura","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9760/homepage_large.e6775cd1.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Tanakh","title":"Saunders Hollow","text":"  Musical chameleons are a common species these days, and the FlorencebywayofVirginia collective Tanakh should be counted proudly among their number. Ostensibly led by singersongwriter Jesse Poe, the wayfaring group's previous four albums have (predictably enough) run an idiosyncratic gamut, ranging from dreamy renaissance folk and refracted Americana to widescale improvised drones. What makes their latest album Saunders Hollow more remarkable is that it was recorded at the same time as 2006's Ardent Fevers using the same studio, engineer and musicians and yet once again sounds like the work of an entirely new band. The basis of Tanakh's evolution on Saunders Hollow is Poe's unselfish willingness to accept a supporting role, allowing erstwhile backup singer Michele Poulos to take over as lead vocalist and chief songwriter. And though the rest of the cast from Ardent Fevers remains in place, this one move understandably triggers a substantial shift in the group's overall dynamic and sensibility. Backed by a returning group of collaborators that includes avantpercussionist Alex Neilson, vocalist Isobel Campbell, and multiinstrumentalist Phil Murphy, Poulos seizes the opportunity to direct Tanakh into quieter, more introspective waters. And though the album does little to further identify what could ultimately be called Tanakh's signature sound, here Poe and Poulos do strike a rare blow in favor of a genuinely democratic collaboration. Any quarrels about Tanakh's stubborn lack of continuity should evaporate upon first hearing of the luminous opener \"Ladybird\". Lush with strings, vibraphone, and Campbell's ethereal backing vocals, this gorgeous track kicks off the Poulos era with a prolonged, ecstatic sigh, the full group carried along by the song's supple currents for seven timecollapsed minutes. True to form, Tanakh immediately disrupts this pastoral reverie with the following \"Marcel Proust\", whose twangy gales of guitar, fiddle and sax frame the album's closest kin to the Calexico textures of Ardent Fevers.  A brief intro of tabla ushers in Saunders Hollow's exotic instrumental title track, whose recurrent, nearflamenco guitar figures are about all that remains here of the panethnic excursions from Tanakh's early work. Instead, on such tracks as the harpsichordbased folk ballad \"Longer Than Sorrow\" or the tempered jukeblues of \"Kept\", Poulos enables the group to further expand upon their reclaimed American lexicon. Agile though these crossgenre maneuvers are, however, the album's momentum buckles through its middle passages, as Poulos' voice and elusive lyrics can get submerged beneath the company's studiously eclectic instrumentation.  Tanakh save their most jarring segue for last, introducing the albumclosing \"Illusions of Separation\" with a threeminute breach of electronic noise and feedback that wouldn't sound too out of place on a Double Leopards album. It does sound considerably out of place here, however, but it serves to instantly draw the listener out of whatever idyllic stupor the rest of Saunders Hollow might have induced. Palate suitably cleansed, Poulos and Tanakh from there allow their communal music to float away on a magic carpet of violin and singing saw, their sound's natural identity more diffuse and indeterminate than ever.  "}