{"label":" Birdman","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9766/homepage_large.d9f2e07f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Masters","artist":"Greg Ashley","title":"Painted Garden","text":" Greg Ashley's 2003 solo debut Medicine Fuck Dream is a bit of an overlooked gem. It's by no means a great record, but its best songs are uniquely hypnotic, like slomo takes on the eerie bedroom folk of Roky Erikson and Skip Spence. Ashley has a knack for creating spinetingling moments out of drowsy melodies and haunting singing. After crafting two solid psychrock records with his Bay Area band the Gris Gris, he returns to the solo realm with Painted Garden, an album that widens and sharpens the sound of Medicine Fuck Dream, but doesn't completely perfect it. That's not for lack of trying. The 10 songs here are more ambitious than those on Ashley's debut, applying his reverbdrenched vocals and sleepy timing to a range of musical styles. When this works, Ashley's mix of recognizable influences and uniquelyskewed sonics is compelling. Opener \"Song From Limestone County\" is the strongest gambit: Starting with outdoor ambience, muffled samples, and strange acoustic plucks, it morphs into an aching ditty made more beautiful by Ashley's refusal to rush. As he marches stoically through the song's frozen steps, the track somehow gains intensity from tantalizing restraint.Painted Garden's next two songs are similarly striking. \"Won't Be Long\" gathers acoustic slide and twangy plucks into a mess of catchy folk. An uncredited female singer steps in on \"Sailing With Bobby\", injecting a dreamy innocence into Ashley's baroque, bellringing tune. Her irresistible vocals recall Heather Lewis from Beat Happening, if she were recorded through a rainbowlit waterfall. From there, the album sags, as Ashley's songs become more generic and predictable. The loungey, pianotinkling \"Fisher King\" and the swaying 1950s waltz \"Pretty Belladonna\" both swing nicely, but they lack the odd personality of the previous tracks, with fewer weird touches and offroad turns. In addition, Ashley's vague, disjointed lyrics, a subtle strength when buried inside better songs, seem overexposed when grafted to lessinspired melodies. Ashley's idiosyncratic take on psychfolk reemerges on the album's final two tracks (not counting the tackedon, kazoodriven ender \"Corporation Station Agent\", oddly lifted from a Gris Gris 7\"). The echosoaked séance of \"Caroline and the Orange Tree\" is undeniably mesmerizing, and the heartbreaking ballad \"Medication #5\" concludes with a wistful keyboard line that evokes immediate spinechills. The album doesn't have enough of those moments to make it a consistent winner, but Ashley will hit a home run someday, and for now Painted Garden is a solid step toward that imminent triumph. "}