{"label":" Brushfire","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9770/homepage_large.3b58d544.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Money Mark","title":"Brand New By Tomorrow","text":"  It's hard not to root for this dude. Master carpenter Mark RamosNishita, better known as Money Mark, rolls with the changes. At the dawn of the 1990s, he goes to do some work on the Beastie Boys' studio and, after hanging out, it becomes clear he knows more about playing music than all of them put together. So for a few years there, he's in the band. He's got some demos lying around that imagine what would have happened if Sebadoh had been into Jimmy Smith and the Sun Ra singles instead of Nick Drake and Joni Mitchell. Next thing you know, Grand Royal and Mo' Wax are putting out Mark's Keyboard Repair in funky multiple editions. And hey, Money Mark can sing and write catchy pop songs, too, so the next album, Push the Button, is all vocal. More instrumentals these more varied and heavily produced followed on 2001's Change Is Coming for the Emperor Norton label. Lately he's been jamming with a couple of the Mars Volta guys and some nutter named Damo Suzuki. None of this is making him rich, obviously; but one imagines that if the calls stop coming someday he'll be happy enough tinkering around with his vintage keys and dusting off the 4track. But the calls will probably keep coming. Brand New By Tomorrow, like the bulk of Money Mark's output, succeeds on its own terms. It's not designed to rearrange your idea of what music can be; it's meant to be listened to and enjoyed, maybe while doing something else you also like doing, like kicking it with friends or driving to the beach or organizing your records. It's another vocal album, but the production by longtime friend Mario Caldato, Jr. is more lowkey than Push the Button. These guys aren't trying to get on the radio; most of the record sounds like a very well recorded demo. Reverb is almost nonexistent. A few different elements, most of which are played by Money Mark, are shuffled around and presented in various permutations: a nice slow drum groove; muted bass with a little stutterstep; a clean guitar working chords in tandem with some beautiful keyboard instruments Fender Rhodes, clavinet, Wurlitzer. Little touches here and there provide small amounts of color. Kindred spirit G. Love kicks in harmonica on \"Nice to Me\", a couple other tracks contain bits of French Horn and strings; I believe that's Brushfire label boss Jack Johnson doing uncredited background vocals on \"Pick Up the Pieces\", which he cowrote. Add on top of this Money Mark's laidback singing and tuneful melodies and you get a loose, warm, and humanscale record that sounds pretty nice right out of the gate. Yes, it's easy at first to forget about when it's not around, but after a couple more listens a few tunes worm their way into your head and start playing back now and then even when the record is off, like something you heard a long time ago but can't quite recall. Its lack of ambition becomes, somehow, a selling point; you can imagine Money Mark gesturing toward his huge collection of great records and saying, \"Hey, it'd be pretty cool to make some stuff that sounds like this.\" And once in a while, he gets there. Brand New by Tomorrow, probably Money Mark's best record, sounds out of place in an appealing way, reminding of a time when something this simple and direct could reach a large number of people. And maybe it'll still happen, who knows. Seems at least possible that a bunch of Jack Johnson fans will trust his curatorial abilities. Their faith will be rewarded. "}