{"label":" Warp","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9774/homepage_large.5729a5de.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brian Howe","artist":"!!!","title":"Myth Takes","text":" With his midriffbaring tshirts and looselimbed dance moves, !!!'s Nic Offer is a total goofball in the unselfconscious way that only really cool guys can get away with being. If you've ever attended a performance by !!! or Offer's former band, Out Hud, then you're familiar with his repertoire: the Christlike wingspan, overhead clapping, shimmying hips, gangly duckwalking, dervish spins, scissor kicks, and humpy pelvic thrusts. It's like the mutant spawn of step aerobics, Flashdance, and Electric Boogaloo in an arenaready package: ridiculous, extravagant, and completely awesome. Offer's stage presence isn't just deeply entertaining; it's an icebreaker that gives us permission, by example, to forget ourselves and celebrate with abandon. You can tell he's having a hell of a time, and his enthusiasm is infectious. This wanton enthusiasm permeates Myth Takes, !!!'s most consistent album to date. They've always been polyrhythmic pop experimenters in the vein of Talking Heads or Arthur Russell, leavening guitarandhorn driven discopunk with adventurous dashes of trance, funk, soul, krautrock, and points beyond. Given this aesthetic dilettantism plus !!!'s supple rhythm section and knack for explosive hooks the band, on paper, seems to have developed a template that should turn out smart bangers every time. But in practice, !!!'s songwriting has sometimes struggled to keep up with their prodigious ideas. For every pitchperfect dancefloor meltdown like \"Me and Giuliani Down By the School Yard (A True Story)\" or their take on the Magnetic Fields' \"Take Ecstasy with Me\", the band's previous albums often squandered their momentum with boggy, static grooves and bizarre tangents. I'm not one to chastise bands for ambition, even when it leads them astray, but there's something to be said for zeroing in on what you do best. What !!! does best are the incendiary discopunk raveups that, happily, take up most of the space on Myth Takes.  Any tentative or halfbaked delivery is all but absent from Myth Takes, which rampages through the annals of kinetic music without letting genre tropes override or diffuse the songs' impact. The cerebral always takes a backseat to the visceral, and the album, while varied, is united by relentless propulsion. The title track's elastic bass and spaghettiwestern guitar licks are a tense backdrop for Offer's smarmy scatting not to mention an effective foil to the ominous funkladen following track, \"All My Heroes Are Weirdoes\". Mobile bass and telegraphic synths dominate the sexjam \"Must Be the Moon\", a sort of pimpstrutting nursery rhyme for the 21+ set (\"One drink, two drinks, three drinks, four!\"). \"A New Name\" holds two contrasting modes in balance: earthy funk verses and a spacey soulnoir chorus that sloughs off tiny icechip tones, testifying to the importance of bassist and sound engineer Justin Vandervolgen's subtle tweaks. No longer experimenting for experimentation's sake, every beatbreaking decision on Myth Takes serves to reinforce the monumental rhythms.  When the album is at its lessthanbest, it's because the band is playing against its strengths. From a technical standpoint, Offer's not an amazing singer. He's terrific at sultry murmurs, yelps, and chants, and luckily, he stays in these modes for most of the album. He doesn't fare as well when he just sings, as we discover on \"Sweet Life\". For one thing, he sounds hesitant, and his outsized partystarter persona slips a bit. For another, his lyrics tend toward the absurd, and you can only get away with lines like \"sleeping underneath the blanket of dread\" if you deliver them with serious bluster. But middling memories of \"Sweet Life\" are quickly obliterated by the impossibly funky squelch of \"Yadnus\", which is also a turning point the album's final third sinks into relative abstraction. The last three tracks' murky digressions bring the album to a brainy close that's satisfying after the brawny pageantry of its front end. By sequestering the cerebral stuff that erratically peppered their prior albums to a closing comedown, Myth Takes, presents !!! as a band that's figured out exactly what it's good at. If they stay the course, continuing to streamline and focus, we can expect many fine albums to come.  "}