{"label":" Full Time Hobby","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/989/homepage_large.72a9967f.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Jason Crock","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Dream Brother: The Songs of Tim and Jeff Buckley","text":" Maybe conflating the histories of Tim Buckley and his son Jeff together for cobiograpghy Dream Brother was a good idea, giving both of their life stories a new context. I don't know, I didn't read it. But combining the material of both Buckleys for a tribute record not to mention casting the net beyond folk or rock inevitably makes for a mixed bag. The faithful: Most of the Tim Buckley covers strive in different ways to compensate for his distinctive, nimble voice. Magic Numbers imitate his swaying stopstart pace through \"Sing a Song For You\", imbued with their trademark sibling harmonies. They leave it with their personal stamp, but what was once so impeccably graceful is now a bit too precious with those breathy higher harmonies. Elsewhere, the Earlies' \"I Must Have Been Blind\" lays it on thick with a wall of vocal harmonies and widearmed slow claps to reach the heights of Tim's original vocal. Sufjan Stevens takes on \"She Is\", and wisely moves the spotlight away from his limited voice and onto the arrangement, where he excels. The usual banjo and sparkling clean electric guitar are there, lifted by layers of airy woodwinds that hit untapped potential in the original. On the younger Buckley's side, Adem takes a brave oneman acoustic attempt at \"Mojo Pin\", keeping every note the same, and his able voice is the closest match to either Buckley (and sounds almost like father covering son). Stephen Fretwell's \"Morning Theft\" is a bit too faithful, dragged down in gushy sentimentalism, and points out the door Jeff left open for one too many amateur romantics. The departures: Micah P. Hinson's confidently sung yet peculiar take through Jeff's \"Yard of Blonde Girls\", adding layers and building in volume as if it were one of his private demos, a perky backporch pluck with no reverence to Jeff's grinding glamhappy original. King Creosote's \"Grace\" limits itself to accordion and simple acoustic strumming, yet nails the existential woe of the original without the vocal histrionics. The notsodeparturous departures: The Engineers' \"Song to the Siren\" sounds a whole lot like the Engineers. The mixed bag: The inclusion of artists like Matthew Herbert and Bitmap might make the disc more diverse, but it dissolves the focus. I'd have liked to hear a record of new sensitive folkies who feel the influence of Tim and admiration for Jeff. Bitmap's \"Dream Brother\" adds a thin coat of robot funk while leaving the structure unscratched. The new \"Everybody Here Wants You\" wipes the slate clean, and while the cooing vocals of Dani Siciliano and the slinking beat are a nice counterpoint to the original's exaggerated sensuality, the result is cold and aimless.  The surprises: Tunng deconstruct \"No Man Can Find the War\" to stunning effect, leaving fleet fingerpicking and low harmonies over subtle electronic percussion, with a casual delivery that makes the grim imagery of the lyrics even darker. Kathyrn Williams turns her scratchy limited range to an advantage, and her minimal, sunny take on \"Buzzin' Fly\" is easily most charming track. Maybe I'm wrong on the modern folk angle; the best tracks on Dream Brother are from artists who ignored expectations and dared to be themselves flaws and all.  "}