{"label":" Ipecac","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9785/homepage_large.748d7850.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tom Breihan","artist":"Dälek","title":"Abandoned Language","text":" Record stores might file albums from this Newark duo in the hiphop section, and the group might talk a good game about Rakim and EPMD and slather its CD booklets in graffiti graphics, but Dälek aren't really a rap group; it's more accurate to call them an industrialshoegaze IDM group that sometimes raps. Even wayout exploratory underground rap albums like Cannibal Ox's The Cold Vein tend to foreground voices and drums in the mix; in Dälek's music, there's no foreground at all. The voice of MC/producer Dälek (this is one of those confusing groups where the name of the duo is also the name of a dude in the duo) burbles up halfobscured from the thick, heady mix, ghostly in the way it suddenly appears and vanishes while shifting, heaving masses of drums, strings, guitars, and synths scream and flare and buckle around it. And so the actual rapping is only one element in the group's dense compositions, which layer scores of tiny components into woozy, disorienting symphonies of noise. So it's not a huge surprise that most of the group's support comes from the noise and metal undergrounds; they're more likely to tour with Isis or the Melvins than with, say, Aesop Rock. On playlists, they sound better next to Current 93 or Scott Walker than Sean Price or Rich Boy. It's not that rap doesn't have room for maverick explorers like these guys; it's that the group's explorations have led them to actively repudiate nearly all of rap's defining characteristics. They've opted out of the race and into something else. The duo's last album, 2005's Absence, was an hour of ugly, discordant squalls, and it was still somehow the most accessible thing they'd ever made. On Abandoned Language, though, Dälek's impulses tend more toward the contemplative than the assaultive, but they're still as queasy and indistinct as ever. The opening title track is an ambitious, 10minute sprawl that piles layer upon layer of synth and string on top of an anemic drumtrack and a disconsolately muttered vocal. The duo allows Dälek's voice to push closer to the top of the mix than usual, but it remains incomprehensible as often as not. And really, that's fine, since Dälek's lyrics are mostly freeassociative backpacker gobbledygook that only occasionally cohere into nice little snatches of language. The point of this stuff, after all, is the seismic drift of the composition; with three minutes left to go, the vocals drop out altogether, and a buzzing swarm of multitracked violins take their place. For a minute, chaos overwhelms the track, but then it coasts back into a pretty but uneasy swamp of warm Rhodes tones and sad, slow drums. The rest of the album follows that opening track's blueprint, pitting glowing warmth against scraping noise and usually letting warmth win. On \"Paragraphs Relentless\", a constant basscreak and an insistent sonar blip from guest DJ Rob Swift ooze gorgeously. Near the end of \"Content to Play Villain\", the synths and drums suddenly vanish and give way to a pretty jazzhorn collage. The scratchedin strings and moaning organs of \"Tarnished\" imply melody without ever quite letting it take shape. And occasionally seasick noise wins out, as on the beatless, shrieking instrumental \"Lynch,\" but even then the end result is more ambient and organic than it's been on the group's older records. If Dälek didn't have all this discordant float working for them, they'd be one of the most irritating rap groups in history. Their drum tracks never venture beyond simplistic, skeletal thuds. Dälek's delivery is a halfasleep mumble, and his lyrics tend toward joyless Dead Prez agitation and stodgy oldman battlerap full of complaints about how kids today don't understand what rap really is. But the duo is smart enough not to let that textheavy frustration overwhelm everything else. Instead, they've drowned it in oceans of sound, and for the first time, that sound has moved toward something approaching beauty. On Abandoned Language, Dälek have done something with rap similar to what their old collaborator Justin Broadrick has been doing with metal in Jesu; they've melted it into an infinity of reverb and revealed an abyss of sadness. It's too easy to say that Dälek make rap for people who hate rap; it's more that they make rap for people who hate everything. "}