{"label":" Anti-","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9791/homepage_large.f0d13d3b.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Rob Mitchum","artist":"The Frames","title":"The Cost","text":"  Despite the recent surge of indiefriendly bands aiming for grandiosity, upgrading to a Big Sound is no simple matter. Sure, many artists have lately begun to emulate the stadiumsize approaches of luminaries like U2 and Bruce Springsteen, or even more recent largevenue successes like Coldplay or Pearl Jam, but few have successfully pulled off the transition. The fact that many of these bands have yet to achieve any sort of mainstream crossover makes the pursuit even more difficult; it's hard to make arena rock when you're still playing the clubs. The Frames have a bit of an edge in this regard, being massively popular in their home Ireland, a big fish/small pond status best portrayed by the cultish crowd singalongs on their live album Set List. But since the group has emigrated to American label Anti, the Frames have sought to translate their outsized stage presence into a larger album sound, first on 2004's Burn the Maps and now on The Cost. But while seeing a band cramming XXL songs into an intimate space can be a thrilling experience (it's was one of the Arcade Fire's secret weapons on the way up), in the sterile environment of a record, shooting for majestic can just as easily result in sounding middling and generic.The Cost draws deep from The Book on Writing Epics, utilizing all the most popular strategies toward the goal of writing largecanvas anthems. There's the song with the slow build (\"People Get Ready\"), the song with the really simple metaphor (\"Falling Slowly\"), powerful oneword song titles (\"Rise\", \"True\"), and many, many songs with the triumphant violin solo. Pretty much the entire album sticks to the same contemplative tempo, and singer Glen Hansard unfurls his (considerably dampened) broguelaced falsetto in all the right places, underscoring the real, real emotional parts.  If that whole process seems underwhelmingly bythenumbers, you'd be right...there's very little to The Cost that attempts to surprise. And while there's nothing wrong with a predictable approach when deployed with expertise, it's disappointing from a band like the Frames, whose brash energy is best depicted by the raw, immediate Set List. Behaving themselves enough to conform to Big Sound ideals means sanding away their sense of humor and raucousness; only the metaaware \"Sad Songs\" (with its tongueincheek \"Born to Run\" reference) and the relatively boisterous intro to \"Falling Slowly\" let the band indulge its playful side.  All these compromises do yield a few strong moments of proper grandeur. \"When Your Mind's Made Up\" executes the quiettoloud rampup to perfection, starting with some nicely entwined guitar and piano and reaching a caterwauling, electricfiddle peak. \"The Side You Never Get To See\" integrates orchestration without sounding forced, showing it doesn't hurt to have a fulltime stringplayer in the band when you're going the symphonic route.  Yet too often, Colm Mac Con Iomaire's violin is the only element preventing the Frames from sinking to the status of just another postRadiohead purveyor of massaudience melancholic anthem ballads. That's an injustice to the Frames, but one of their own making, as The Cost reflects the alltoocommon misstep of abandoning too much of a band's unique identity in the pursuit of the Big Sound. The enlargement process doesn't have to entail diluting a band's character in order to hit all the epicsong signifiers, as bands like the Twilight Sad and the Hold Steady have recently shown. Unfortunately, that's the path the Frames have chosen to take, and they've paid the cost without reaching the reward.  "}