{"label":" Astralwerks","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9792/homepage_large.35dc8cf5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Mark Richardson","artist":"Air","title":"Pocket Symphony","text":"  Air like to let you know what kind of album you're in for with the first couple of bars of their opening tracks. Moon Safari faded up with bongos on \"La Femme D'Argent\", setting the stage for a loose and hep journey into spaceage atmospherics. The \"dodothWACK\" S&M whip of the drum machine opening to \"Electronic Performers\", on the other hand, thrust us into the stiffer, shinier, more adventurous world of 10,000 Hz Legend, wherein Nicolas Godin and JeanBenoît Dunckel sounded as if they'd been inhaling some of Dean and Gene Ween's Scotchgard. Talkie Walkie broke the percussiononly trend by pairing its opening beat with a strummed acoustic guitar and a stately piano refrain, introducing their warmest, brightest, and most songoriented album. And on Pocket Symphony, the opening message is equally clear: The fluttering percussion on \"Space Maker\", hovering all alone, sounds like it's bouncing off hard, cold surfaces. Which would seem to suggest that this will be Air's quietest and most austere offering. And so it is. There's a remarkable confidence on display here, that Air would choose to have their first album in three years be so spacious and moody, and so much less pop. They must know that they'll lose a few comelately fans with music this relaxed and, well, sleepy. But the more you listen to Pocket Symphony, the more it becomes clear that it's remote by design. As they demonstrated throughout Talkie Walkie and on a few tracks per record on the previous two, Air can very capably write terrifically catchy songs when so inclined; here, they'd rather create finelywrought furniture music. And they're good at it. Working again with Nigel Godrich, they've crafted what might be one of the year's bestsounding records, every lone piano note hanging improbably long in space and aloud to decay in what must be some unimaginably beautiful room. My first instinct was that Pocket Symphony was the return to Moon Safari territory fans wanted so desperately when 10,000 Hz Legend first hit the shelves, but upon returning to their debut for the first time in a good while, that seems off. Yes, there's a quality to Godin's heavenly basslines that occasionally puts this record in a similar groovy headspace, but Air are light years from the earlier work's cheeky retrofuturisms. In the formal world of Pocket Symphony, a squelchy Moog would be considered vulgar, the unpredictability of its aged circuits no substitute for the absolute control of a grand piano, a finely brushed acoustic guitar, or the Japanese koto. Air are ready to unplug here at a moment's notice, and the space in which these acoustic instruments was recorded counts as an instrument in itself.  Four of these dozen tracks are purely instrumental, but the ratio feels higher many of the poppier songs seem to be about arrangement and shading first. Jarvis Cocker chips in on \"One Hell of a Party\", his husky, downcast voice suiting the song's metaphor (relationship as hedonistic soiree to be reckoned with the morning after), and yet the frame of the song is so skeletal that the sentiment never gathers weight. This might seem to mirror the bombedout nature of the lyric, but that's an intellectualization; it's ultimately just an OK, vergingondull song. Neil Hannon of the Divine Comedy sings lead on \"Somewhere Between Walking and Sleeping\" and the result muted, vaguely bland is again just serviceable.  The pop songs that Dunckel sings are better suited to the album's frame of mind, serving more as sketches, the sort of halfwritten catchphrases that exist, in the \"Kelly Watch the Stars\" sense, mostly to build a chord structure around. The creamy layers of voice during the \"without you\" chorus in \"Left Bank\", along with the upbeat \"Mer du Japon\" one of the best songs they've written and the album's best track are as close as Air get to Talkie Walkie­level hooks. Elsewhere, it's more subtle hints and raised eyebrows than fleshedout songs, whether the prickly synth and robotic swing of \"Napalm Love\" with its threenote melody or the crisp, lightly echoed spaciousness of \"Photograph\", which clicks along like patent leather boots down a dark marble hallway.  On every pass through the record, it seems clearer that the sound of Pocket Symphony is the album's real content. And that sound, no question, is exquisite. But it's also hard to hold in your head after the record stops playing, so Pocket Symphony winds up feeling strangely transient, accomplished and genuinely likeable but also forgettable. "}