{"label":" 4AD","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9793/homepage_large.6fe97bce.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Eric Harvey","artist":"Wolf & Cub","title":"Vessels","text":"  With their Adelaide address, bongrattling basslines, occasionally mystical lyrical tendencies, and, of course, lupinederived moniker, Wolf and Cub will draw comparisons to fellow Aussie metalheads Wolfmother. And while the band's first fulllength Vessels certainly betrays a shared unironic affinity for the stonermetal triumvirate of Blue Cheer, Black Sabbath and Vanilla Fudge, Wolf and Cub more often than not engage in a different sort of roleplay. The nearly sevenminute title track that opens Vessels effectively sets the stage for the remainder of the record. Swirling guitar feedback and bass that rumbles like an underground explosion hover around primevally pounded drums, tambourine, and the vocals of Joel Byrne, who sounds like a pained Marc Bolan struggling to make sense of his surroundings. If this description conjures Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, it should. Like their San Franciscobased brothers in arms, Wolf and Cub are indebted to an imagined version of 1960s West Coast hippie mysticism. More specifically, the group seems to have walked through the looking glass of a 1968 Bill Graham Fillmore West concert poster and have yet to reemerge.Vessels is loaded with revvedup, thunderous yowls that would make a fine soundtrack for any number of D&Dinspired video games; sweatsoaked instrumental \"Rozalia Bizarre\" echoes the Amboy Dukes' 1968 Bmovie rumble \"Journey to the Center of Your Mind\", while \"March of Clouds\", \"This Mess\", and \"Seeds of Doubt\" nail down the band's mindnumbing pattern of power drill psychmetal. That the songs are essentially interchangeable 8cylinder rawk is one thing; that they begin to clearly resemble the longforgotten, acidcoated Easternrevivalists Kula Shaker is something more distressing altogether. A generic lavender haze coats much of Vessels, and the band seems fine to reside in the same exotic sky castle as the Brit Pop casualty. A brief hint of better things to come for the band lies late in the record, as shapeshifting instrumental \"Conundrum\" suggests the band has a fuzzy idea of something more interesting to do with psychedelic atmospherics. A sinuous, dark piano line writhes its way through the howling feedback, suggesting a jazzy, mysterious undercurrent not too dissimilar from Traffic's \"The Low Spark of HighHeeled Boys\". That song's title and preternatural level of mellowness invokes a spirit of fashionableyetcasual rebelliousness that is perhaps impossible to realize, yet one that Wolf and Cub might do well to strive toward.  "}