{"label":" Essay","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9794/homepage_large.88623a14.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Tim Finney","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Rio Baile Funk: More Favela Booty Beats","text":" When jungle announced \"I bring you the future,\" the music's knowing quality rendering in advance all critical pronouncements slightly redundant. Most of the time, though, the future in music is a trick of perspective. Like the hidden shape in a magic eye picture, it emerges suddenly under the right conditions, made of the same material as the music had been before, but somehow expressing a different topography. And then, just as suddenly, you can't see it anymore. Could Brazil's funk carioca express the same message, and would we (know how to) listen for it if it did? I don't speak Portuguese and you probably don't either, but something about the unambiguously lustful tone of its MCs suggests that temporal dislocation is the last thing on their minds. But what makes funk carioca in 2007 once we've moved on from the genrehopping thrill of simply knowing what it sounds like, once we've adjusted to the sad realization that its biggest impact on Western pop was probably in providing the ballast for Gwen Stefani's \"Wind It Up\" such an urgent proposition is precisely this strangely disconcerting quality: Listening to Rio Baile Funk: More Favela Booty Beats, you can hear snatches of a potential future emerging from the sedimented popculture muck of the past. The first of Essay Recordings' Rio Baile Funk compilations portrayed funk as uncomplicated, popfocused party music, similar to dancehall and soca at their most friendly. Simple electro beats gave way to brief flares of sampled AfroBrazilian percussion, MCs chanted earworm vocal hooks, and melodies were ripped shamelessly from the annals of popular music. Two years on, the music's fundamental ingredients are unchanged, but this brilliant sequel feels like an entirely different proposition. With few memorable songs or choruses, More Favela Booty Beats is undoubtedly less of a pop phenomenon than its predecessor, but it's much better dance music: the grooves are tighter, denser, and more heavily invested in exploiting the mindbending qualities of syncopation inherent in the collision between AfroBrazilian percussion and digital production. Less content than before to be mistaken for a simple composite of old school electro and Brazilian MCs, it's not so much that funk has gotten more subtle or sophisticated (if anything the sound is even baser) but rather that it's now clearly and resolutely its own beast, drawing from a host of influences but in thrall to none of them.  Most radically, funk is returning the art of sampling to urban dance music. Whereas previously pop tunes were stolen and recreated almost in their entirety, now producers are enamored with cutting up and mutilating their sample sources into nearunrecognizable jitter riffs of melodic intensity. The sample sources range from the highpitched guitar from Guns & Roses' \"Sweet Child of Mine\" to the amorous robot in Benny Benassi's \"Satisfaction\", but in all cases their role is limited to being just one more guilty pleasure in an endless parade of sounds and effects. The MCs have also been subject to the same decentralization: Rather than one MC providing a fullblown rap, many tracks feature a host of different voices all offering a sampled line or two, each contribution dueling to be the best sounding, the little vocal hook that drive the crowd wild much in the same way that early jungle or big beat pillaged rap for discrete hooks to give their music some punch.  Sometimes the vocals literally become the music: on DJ Disconhecido's \"Dedinho Pro Alto\", a sampled MC's shouts are looped into a percussive rhythm, before leaping vertiginously into a trebly computerized stutter, its seasick interaction with the loping bongo percussion so eerily reminiscent of early 90s breakbeat rave techno that I'm halftempted to call it homage. But the key to this music's success is that it is precisely not homage: If funk is among the most cheerfully ignorant of all current pop music forms, it uses this ignorance to work through the impasse of intricate studio assembly that faces the spectrum of accomplished Western pop sounds. While we lurch perpetually and dogmatically between mild advances in production techniques and revivalist retro maneuvers, funk's shortcircuit between pop formula and sonic chaos suggests a way out. Rough and ready, its crudely psychedelic collision of percussion, hooks and pure energy might take us back to a future we thought had been forgotten.  "}