{"label":" Gnomonsong","artwork":"http://cdn4.pitchfork.com/albums/9795/homepage_large.ecec6dfe.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matthew Murphy","artist":"Rio en Medio","title":"The Bride of Dynamite","text":"  During his brief career moonlighting as an unofficial talent scout, Devendra Banhart has revealed a weakness for a certain stripe of ethereal, folkinclined female vocalist. His enthusiasm was instrumental in reviving the careers of longlost 60sera performers Vashti Bunyan and Ruthann Friedman, and he has also offered similar support to such younger acts as Natasha Khan's Bat for Lashes and Dallas singer Jana Hunter, whose marvelous 2005 debut album Blank Unstaring Heirs of Doom was the first release on Gnomonsong, the label Banhart operates with Vetiver's Andy Cabic. So it shouldn't generate much shock to learn that Gnomonsong's latest discovery, Rio en Medio, the solo project of vocalist/instrumentalist Danielle StechHomsy, shares several traits in common with each of these other Banhart favorites. Coproduced by the Pernice Brothers' Thom Monahan, Rio en Medio's debut The Bride of Dynamite features cameo appearances from Cabic, CocoRosie's Sierra Casady, and David Coulter. Despite this amassed talent, however, the project belongs entirely to StechHomsy, and is centered almost exclusively on her delicate, Vashtilike vocals, a few drifting samples, and her baritone ukulele an instrument that sounds considerably less exotic in action than it first might appear. Yet when listening to The Bride of Dynamite, one has to wonder if perhaps Banhart and Gnomonsong might not be getting somewhat ahead of themselves. StechHomsy recorded the bulk of this material on her own, with no original intention to release it, and not surprisingly much of it sounds like what used to be quaintly known as a demo tape. With its spare arrangements and extensive use of empty spaces, the album's construction does little to camouflage the fact that StechHomsy has yet to fully get her legs beneath her as a songwriter, and as a result too many of these intimate, elliptical pieces feel more like private exercises than vibrant, fleshedout songs.  Adding to The Bride of Dynamite's diffuse impact is StechHomsy's decision to cull many of its lyrics from a variety of preexisting texts. Album opener \"You Can Stand\" takes its lyrics from a 19th century poem by Ellen Gates, while \"Europe a Prophecy\" cribs William Blake. Other tracks borrow from poets John Ashbery and Paul Eluard, as well as a vintage Baghdad travelogue by author Freya Stark. And though these texts do provide the album with a valuable multiplicity of voice and perspective, they often do so at the expensive of any kind of authorial continuity and cohesion.  Then again, StechHomsy fares little better on such selfpenned tracks as the cloying \"Tiger's Ear\" or the mawkish lullaby \"Everyone Is Someone's\". \"Everyone is someone's sweet little baby... we were meant for love,\" she coos contentedly on the latter over a thin gauze of ukulele, handclaps, and flitting samples of children's voices the ghostly sounds of their disembodied laughter inadvertently lending the tune a vaguely creepy, unsettling overtone. Considerably more successful are grouporiented works such as the sturdy, cellodriven \"Girls on the Run\" or the lightly percolating \"Joe Was on the Plane\" which is bolstered by Tim Fite's electronics and Coulter's evocative work on singing saw. These pieces suggest StechHomsy to be wellsuited to writing for a larger ensemble, and reports of her further collaborations with Fite sound promising, particularly when contrasted with the halting, hesitant baby steps publicly displayed on The Bride of Dynamite.  "}