{"label":" Interscope","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9797/homepage_large.4b5af417.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Nate Patrin","artist":"Beck","title":"The Information: Deluxe Edition","text":"  Whether its quickly canonized status as one of the 1990s greatest albums is deserved or not, the one thing about Odelay that seems the most innovative in retrospect is the avalanche of remixes that followed in its wake. No less than four of the album's songs \"Devil's Haircut\", \"Where It's At\", \"The New Pollution\", and \"JackAss\" were released as extended CD or 12\" singles and reworked extensively; \"Devil's Haircut\" alone has somewhere around a halfdozen variations, including Aphex Twin's hyperactive drillnbass machete job and a hardcore punk homage/parody titled, amusingly enough, \"American Wasteland\". While there was a certain hiphop methodology to the album's sampleheavy construction and production, it still seemed a bit weird and exciting to hear all these reinterpretations; few artists who fell under the rubric of rock (alt or otherwise) had left their supposedly finished work so open to other artists' alterations. And with so many layers of postmodernism and contextwarping already extant in the original music, each additional remix simply blurred whatever sense of meaning the songs opaque lyrics and all were supposed to have in the first place. Critics called it irony, but it felt more like reverse engineering. Ten years later, Beck's notion of malleable pop had grown to encompass two introspective psychfolk albums in Mutations and Sea Change, a Dirty MindcumEmotional Rescue discofunk monstrosity in Midnite Vultures (which accidentally kickstarted electroclash \"Get Real Paid\" has a lot to answer for), and Guero, a disoriented attempt to try and return to a centered idea of what the Beck \"sound\" actually consisted of. The (wrong) answer: a collage of a collage.  By the time the mediocritystuffed remix album Guerolito came out in early 2006, the idea of easily reconfigurable modular music felt less intriguing than the idea of actually good music, and the summer hype push behind The Information makeyourowndesign sticker covers, crazy lowbudget streaming internet videos, a bunch of blahdeblah about the usercreatedcontent future of music felt less like the excited tinkering of a Fluxusreared conceptual artist and more like a collartugging attempt to grab an audience increasingly disinterested in anything you couldn't put on an iPod. The CD came, the CD went, the press disappointedly mulled over it for a week, and then they moved on to whatever it was Danger Mouse was doing. Thing is, The Information's a pretty decent album, and time's been fair to it: After half a year's worth of exposure, the moments that sounded like blatant sorethumb references on first listen the \"Chameleon\"ic fusion funk of \"Cellphone's Dead\", the piano in \"Strange Apparition\" that evokes circaAltamont Rolling Stones, the synthbass murmur and crystalline inflections that make \"Dark Star\" sound like a somnambulist take on Stevie Wonder's \"Have a Talk With God\" feel a bit more integrated into a greater sonic whole, while the album's lessimmediate experimental tracks (the microBeck \"Motorcade\" and the Enolite \"Movie Theme\", in particular) have worked their way from dull, instant skipovers into tolerable diversions. And Beck's lyrics are some of his most immediate, having developed into a coherent and unobstructed examination of modernage anxiety without losing their beatpoet opacity. Calling it Beck's best since Odelay is sort of faint praise, but while it doesn't have the feel of a revelatory Event Record, the album does cohere into something evolutionary, using Beck's older work as a starting point instead of a salvage yard.  The irony, of course, is that Beck's attempted usercontent toolkit of an album is singular enough to avoid benefiting from a bunch of extraneous, contextaltering additional material especially in a package as unwieldy as the \"Deluxe Edition\" (has any other album packaging in majorlabel history made pulling a CD out of a paper sleeve this damn difficult?). Most of the diehard Beck fans who haven't heard the bonus tracks on the first disc probably just haven't figured out the finer points of filesharing, though his attempts at DFAesque dancepunk (\"Inside Out\") and giggling, Clear Spotstyle Beefheart funk (the Minutemen/Commodores/Sonic Youth/Jodecinamedropping \"This Girl That I Know\") are worth hearing at least once.  Like the earlier pressings of the October release, the Deluxe Edition also has all those cheapie videos he made with producer Nigel Godrich, though if you're skeeved out by public accessquality cinematography and inane wigs you're probably better off just skipping to the noirabsurdist Michel Gondry clip for \"Cellphone's Dead\". And if you screwed up the sticker design on the cover of your old copy, this one comes with the full fourpage set, so you can start it over and then put all the extra ones on your \"Guitar Hero\" guitar or something. If there's a significant pull to buy this version of the album instead of the slightly cheaper original, it's the full disc of remixes, which are limited in the scope of their source material (three songs, six remixes) but still manage to steer clear of stylistic redundancy. Ellen Allien's propulsive minimal house transformation of \"Cellphone's Dead\" is the most essential track, downplaying the squelchy bassline of the original in favor of the delicate piano that underpinned it and relying on a ghostlyreverbed fragment of the chorus \"eye of the sun\" as the main vocal hook. David Andrew Sitek of TV on the Radio takes a similar route instrumentally on his mix of \"Dark Star\", scaling back everything but the rhythm and Beck's voice for the first couple minutes, then gradually letting a wave of electronics and an Ornettestyle freejazz sax solo bleed their way through.  The others are takeorleave matters: Both attempts at reenvisioning \"Nausea\" the Bumblebeez's apatheticsounding indiedisco slog and the Chap's amorphous orchestral electro feel less energetic than the original, while Ricardo Villalobos' 14andahalfminute techhouse extension of \"Cellphone's Dead\" comes across like a preexisting instrumental with the vocals stapled to it; here, Beck sounds like he's leaning against a wall in a state of bewilderment watching other people dance and muttering houserap verses to himself to stave off his nerves. So, this is a cashin. Not like it's a bad time for it, since a relatively sparse stretch of the year like this Arcade Fire notwithstanding feels like a good occasion to revisit a moderately slepton album that, if anything, at least transcends its gimmickry. Just be aware that once all the stickers are peeled away and the videos fall into YouTube limbo, most of the enjoyment you'll find on it is in the core of the album as it existed six months ago. It is what it is, and it doesn't need to be anything else. "}