{"label":" Type","artwork":"http://cdn2.pitchfork.com/albums/9800/homepage_large.74a2d08a.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Brandon Stosuy","artist":"Svarte Greiner","title":"Knive","text":"  Faceless Norwegian composer Erik K. Skodvin, aka Svarte Greiner, stuffs circuit boards with ghosts. Fittingly, promo photos find him (or someone or something) in fluttering, disembodied blond Slash mode. His debut fulllength, Knive, hums with a romantic, bleak, and morose melancholia something both emotionally and sonically heavy.  Skodvin, who also records as one half of Deaf Center, here makes more enigmatic tracks, the work of a lone musician at his peekaboo best. You can locate the album in the electronic section, but the feel is more organic, reminiscent of, say, Gleipnirs Smeder by Gorgorothaffiliated duo Jotunspor, only emptied of its rock flesh and slowed to a frigid, levitating death rattle. There's never any screaming or howling the sinister part is what doesn't happen. Knive comes alive largely because of its spaciousness, but also the fact that the knob turning's mixed with field recordings (a crow caw, a rouge kettle, door or boat creaking), baying male vocal whooshes/a frosty operatic female singer, cello, pipe organ, arid sounding bass, guitar, and singing saw. It accrues momentum and gains force through interlocking puzzle chunks. Music's referred to as \"shadowy\" far too often; this sounds like shades and shadows making a mute racket.  Each track's on a slowrepeat loop. The pieces then extend this sort of motion, an ebb and flow that works its way into song titles like \"Ocean Out of Wood\" and \"The Boat Was My Friend\". The pattern shuffles through subtle additions: Freddy Krueger blades clinking together in \"Easy on the Bones\", the more defined organ\"driven\" \"The Black Dress\" (along with crinkling papers and shuffling and other incidentals), heartier, almost rock drums in \"The Dining Table\". Otherwise, there are no obvious or danceready beats you get the constant feel of a presence; a heart moving faintly... endtimes biorhythms. Knive escapes easy crescendos the record just moves continuously to a nonfinale. Mr. Skodvin's wild ride came out a few months ago. It made my 2006 yearend list, but somehow I never wrote about it except in passing. I'm glad for the delay months later, after dozens of listens, it's still a mystery. The musician's biography's known, but to me, his physical presence isn't. Some time ago, a person wrote with his info and wanted us to get in contact. I ignored the invitation, not out of malice, but because Knive exists so much more powerfully with nothing tangible attached to it. For now, it could very well have been written by the void. Feels best to keep it that way.  "}