{"label":" Labrador","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9805/homepage_large.6bc11cd5.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Marc Hogan","artist":"Various Artists","title":"Labrador 100, a Complete History of Popular Music","text":"  A complete history of Swedish popular music would strain even the most longwinded reviewer. The Scandinavian nation responsible for the coolly melodic pop of the Concretes, El Perro del Mar, Jens Lekman, Love Is All, and Peter Bjorn & John also brings us the unguarded cuteness of Hello Saferide and I'm From Barcelona, the danceable insecurities of Robyn and Sally Shapiro, the visceral psychrock of Dungen, and the Knife's 2006defining haunted house. Blame Sweden, too, for Soundtrack of Our Lives and Yngwie fucking Malmsteen. Good thing they're peaceloving, right? Stockholm's Labrador Records has helped define the \"Swedish pop\" sound now heard in club nights from London to Berlin. Cheekily titled Labrador 100: A Complete History of Popular Music celebrates the influential indie label's 10th anniversary with one song from each of its first 100 releases (including a new track from dreampoppers the Radio Dept.). At more than five hours, the fourdisc set contains more than enough overlooked gems for indiepop fans to obsess over, argue about, and fall in love with. Labrador specializes in sweetly chiming pop in the old Sarah Records mold; its sound has broadened considerably over the years, but don't expect any of the macho garagerock that put Sweden on the NME's pubcrawl map in the early 00s. Girlish whispers and Morrisseyesque enunciations are the norm. Early Labrador 100 tracks by bands like Starlet or Airliner display echoes of the Field Mice's bedsit lofi, while Pelle Carlberg and his band Edson apply selfconscious wit to Belle & Sebastian's initial hushed tones. The compilation also makes room for Laurel Music's countryinflected yearning, Douglas Heart's shoegaze twilights, Irene's bubblegum soul, the Legends' noiseswathed Northern soul, the homemade electropop of Club 8 or Waltz for Debbie, the Pulp archness of Corduroy Utd. and Loveninjas, and the shimmering new wave of newcomers the Mary Onettes.  Out of such gentle nostalgia, Labrador 100 presents song after song of wouldbe Perfect Pop Songs and plenty of them are pretty near perfect indeed. Suburban Kids With Biblical Names set forth a manifesto on their devastatingly catchy \"Rent a Wreck\": \"I want to turn all their dance floors into a burning inferno of bababa.\" Their labelmates have similar designs. Jangly Labrador standouts Acid House Kings badada on the gorgeous \"Say Yes if You Love Me\", breezy synthpoppers Mondial nanana on \"Undeserved Potential\", and New Orderechoing dancepop duo Tribeca oohoohooh on defiantly adolescent breakup tune \"Teenage\". Hell, [ingenting] sing in Swedish, but language clearly isn't the issue here.  For all their worldconquering melodies, Labrador 100's best songs have an uneasy relationship with mass appeal. They're shy. \"It's my favorite song, but I don't like the crowd,\" Sambassadeur explain on one of my favorite songs here, the Velvet UndergroundviaC86 \"Between the Lines\". This is pop, but it's also personal: I might not see the appeal of Wan Light's glassyvoiced spacepop or Hurray's noseplugged twee, but surely someone will. In Jude Rogers' exhaustive liner notes, Acid House Kings' Niklas Angergard describes Labrador's essence as \"quality pop music which sometimes no one likes, but hey, it doesn't matter that much as long as you like it yourself.\" No wonder Sweden doesn't have wars.  "}