{"label":" American Patchwork / Analog Baroque","artwork":"http://cdn3.pitchfork.com/albums/9806/homepage_large.4a3edc07.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Matt LeMay","artist":"Momus","title":"Ocky Milk","text":" From acoustic folk to postmodern synthpop, Nick Currie has covered a lot of ground in his multidecade career as Momus. But whatever aesthetic predilection he's pursuing, one thing has always remained clear: Momus likes words. At times, Currie's musical creations have seemed like little more than backdrops for his clever and extensive verbiage. It's helped him forge a distinctive identity for himself, as both a musician and a writer, but it's also pigeonholed him as something of a novelty act. \"Nervous Heartbeat\", the debut single from Currie's 19th album as Momus, is notable not only for being the best song on Ocky Milk, but also for being one of the most minimal and restrained tracks ever to grace a Momus record. During each gradually ascending verse, Currie's vocals are electronically modulated in and out of tune.  Here, he uses the digital to enact a lack of control; an interesting reversal upon close consideration, but a striking and strangely moving sound regardless. Elsewhere, Ocky Milk ranges from solid to thoroughly unspectacular.Currie no longer seems to be shooting for the relentless cheeky charm of his earlier releases, making Ocky Milk an uncertain understatement.  Acoustic and electronic elements sit comfortably side by side, occasionally falling into interesting textural formations. The songs are a mixed bag; some are some goofy and oldtimey, some are straightforwardly danceable, and a good many are aimless and meandering. Ocky Milk is full of clever asides and cultural references, but more so than with most any other Momus reference, these often seem beside the point.  Which is probably a good thing; Currie has never had trouble making music that is wellput and cerebral.  Even when he's singing about sex, there's not a lot of body in his work. Which is, perhaps, why I've always preferred his live shows to his recorded output; something about seeing this tall, lanky, eye patchwearing Scotsman grasping a microphone and bleating out songs in the bondi blue glow of an iBook is instantly compelling. \"Nervous Heartbeat\" is the first time I've heard a similar combination of digital sheen and human frailty actually make its way onto a Momus record, and it's exciting to hear some of Currie's highconcept concerns expressed so gracefully and musically. Currie has proven himself a talented writer and cultural commentator, and this album is expectedly clever and selfaware.  But Ocky Milk suggests that Currie is still capable of surprising us with good, understated music.  "}