{"label":" Fat Cat","artwork":"http://cdn.pitchfork.com/albums/9810/homepage_large.f9b6bdfc.jpg","rating":null,"reviewer":" By Stuart Berman","artist":"Welcome","title":"Sirs","text":" The hook is the prized commodity of all pop music, the elusive ingredient that determines a song's palatability. But for Seattle foursome Welcome, the hook is less a metaphorical construct than a literal one a sharp, pointy thing that lures you in by breaking skin and drawing blood. Their Fat Cat debut, Sirs, pulls off the neat trick of feeling more accessible and immediate than it really is. For indie rock fans who came of age during the mid90s, the album will make you wistful for an era when Sub Pop was banking on the Grifters and Spoon were just a quaint little Pixies ripoff. Opener \"All Set\" provides an instant microcosm of Welcome's sloppop ethos, an exercise in mod madness that's knocked askew by wobbly Keith Moon tomtom rolls and outoftune guitar shards that fortuitously converge into a roiling riff, the end result sounding not unlike the Creation's \"Making Time\" with every second note removed. There's an unabated momentum to these songs, which twitch and shout their way to the finish line in just over 28 minutes. But the brevity is more a product of restlessness than focus, and less a matter of distilling a song to its essence than not being able to figure out what that essence is and losing interest. Welcome are in such a hurry to get to the next chord/change/anything, that their songs feel unfinished a quality that lends them an unresolved tension, but also keeps Welcome at an emotional distance, and prevents Sirs from projecting anything more than a spirited randomness. Frontman Pete Brand's voice has a pleasingly gruff familiarity pledging to the same BeatlesbywayofBudweiser school as Bob Pollard but that's the most we ever feel for him; likewise, bassist Jo Claxton's complementary Georgia Hubley coos neither encourage nor diminish the chaos around her. If nothing else, Welcome are an interesting case study of a band with a clear affection for 60s psychedelic pop, but whose fear of giving in to easy nostalgia drives them to deliberate acts of selfsabotage on the title track, Brand spends the first two minutes fighting against creepy, squealing atmospherics with some churning riffage and wouldbeanthemic verses, only to get rerouted into a ponderous bass dirge with minimal dramatic purpose. And yet there are moments where common sense prevails: \"First\" climbs a mountain of sound on a majestic, repeated power chord that melts blissfully in the sun; and the catchy bassriff propulsion of \"Actual Glad\" suggests an alternative universe where Kurt Cobain actually signed to K Records instead of just getting the logo tattooed on his arm. When they let a good idea develop for longer than 30 seconds, Welcome show themselves capable of inspired work even if they make it sound accidental. "}